By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published in the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: The Oppenheimers have shut down the #TakeBLFtoParliament campaign that was hosted by the BackaBuddy crowdfunding platform. This is not surprising. White monopoly capital (WMC) is hellbent on stopping BLF from going to parliament in 2019! Backed by its huge following – the wretched of the earth in general – BLF has reinforced its unwavering commitment to realising its objective of using politics to end politics. By going to parliament BLF will create a second arm of assault against the anti black system while continuing with the first arm of extra parliamentary mass insurrection and direct action. This two pronged approach to political engagement is in furtherance of destroying white supremacy and creating a fully responsive Sankarist state. Hence we call on our people to intensify the campaign to #TakeBLFtoParliament by donating towards the deposit amount of R605000,00 that is required for BLF to register with the Independent Electoral (IEC) to contest the next general election. The deposit amount is by law refundable once a political party obtains at least one seat in parliament. BLF is confident it will get seats in parliament. Any sum of money donated, however small or huge or in between, will be appreciated. If you want to donate to BLF, please make your payment into our bank account, details of which are as follows: Account Name: Black First Land First
Account Number: 625 7120 2911
Branch: 253 305
Bank: FNB
Reference: Donation BLF is already on record for saying that any amount raised to this end, once refunded by the IEC under circumstances indicated above, will be used for social upliftment programs. We will honor our commitment in this regard. Generally we are guided by section 32 of our constitution in how we handle our finances. To this end the following is instructive:
“32.1.1 The funds of the BLF are made up of all monies received by means of membership subscription fees, levies, donations and by any other means within the framework of this Constitution. 32.1.2 The funds of BLF shall be employed solely in pursuance of the organization’s aims and objectives. 32.1.3 Funds allocated for a specific purpose must be employed for that purpose only, unless otherwise decided by the NCC. 32.1.4 No profits or gains may accrue to or be distributed or allocated to any person.” Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC)
2 November 2018 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @BLF_SouthAfrica
Website: www.blf.org.za Deputy President: Zanele Lwana
Cell: +27799867225 National Spokesperson: Lindsay Maasdorp
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Head of Media & Communications: Brian Tloubatla
Cell: +27 82 216 7664