By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published in the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) is appalled by attempts by ABSA to stop BLF from going to parliament by stealing the money of the poor. BLF notes with anger that ABSA has instructed its legal team to approach the courts inorder to take the money which the oppressed have donated to the #TakeBLFtoParliament campaign. The success of the #TakeBLFtoParliament campaign has frightened ABSA into trying to stop BLF from going to parliament by any means, including stealing the money of the poor. Since inception, BLF has exposed ABSA for being a rogue bank which was formed at the latter stages of apartheid on the back of money stolen from the South African Reserve Bank (SARB). Numerous shutdowns of ABSA, including petitioning of the office of the public protector, culminated with a ruling that ABSA must pay back the money. Now, ABSA wants to steal public money for the second time. They ran to the white courts and won a cost order against BLF so that they can take the money our people have generously donated to our movement under the #TakeBLFToParliament campaign, to pay for our legal fees. BLF has entrusted the people to #TakeBLFtoParliament and they responded by donating and pledging close to R200k, this despite Oppenheimers shutting down the Back-A-Buddy crowdfunding campaign. Now, ABSA – the rogue bank, is leading the charge of stealing the people’s money as a measure to ensure BLF does not go to parliament and the black oppressed is not represented in parliament. BLF is not flustered, nor shaken – we know we are at war with white monopoly capital. BLF will fight back, produce more innovative ways to #TakeBLFtoParliament. Finally, BLF warns ABSA and all running dogs of white monopoly capital, we won’t be bought, we belong to the oppressed and we will crush white capital and all its expressions, including ABSA! No Retreat! No Surrender!
#LandOrDeath ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT (BLF NCC) 12 November 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @BLF_SouthAfrica
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664