By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published in the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Week 1 report The #TakeBLFtoParliament crowdfunding campaign is one week old today. The campaign was launched by Black First Land First (BLF) to raise funds to pay a deposit of R605 000 to the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) by the end of January 2019 to enable it to contest the forthcoming general election. This deposit amount will by law be refunded once at least one seat is won in parliament. BLF will provide a weekly report on donations received, challenges experienced and new ideas to grow the campaign. The leadership of BLF thanks all those who have to date participated in the campaign. We have been humbled and inspired by your confidence in the revolutionary movement of the poor. We received many messages of encouragement and support. We also received lots of advice on how to strengthen the campaign. We will definitely follow up on the suggestions that can be practically implemented such as receiving donations via a secured ewallet number. BLF is grateful for all the donations we have received – small, big, whatever the amount. No contribution is too small. The campaign was launched last Monday, 29 October 2018, at the Sophunga Primary School in Inanda, KwaZulu-Natal.  BLF has formed a partnership with the school towards a shared program of social upliftment. The school will receive half of the deposit.  Another project which has been identified by BLF is the building of a house in the Ezimangweni area in Inanda for a homeless grandmother headed household.  The launch of the campaign was met with lots of media skepticism. The target for November 2018 is to raise R100 000! We are happy to report that to date, in terms of direct donations including from the BackabBuddy crowdfunding platform, we have raised R60 000! There is also a pledge of R100 000! The #TakeBLFtoParliament funding campaign has exceeded expectations. Our movement is humbled! The success of the campaign has frightened land thieves and white monopoly capitalists. As a consequence of the fear that BLF will be able to raise the IEC required R600 000 deposit amount from the poor and progressive, the BackaBuddy platform was forced to stop providing its services to BLF. We have no doubt that the closure of the BLF campaign was on the instruction of white monopoly capital (WMC) and land thieves. Stopping the BackaBuddy platform from hosting the campaign, didn’t discourage donations. That’s very encouraging. The people have responded positively. WMC won’t succeed. In the next few days more elements of the #TakeBLFtoParliament campaign will be introduced to make contributions towards the cause easier. We thank you once more. We thank all, including those who have been spreading the word to promote the campaign. It’s our revolution. We must fund it! #TakeBLFtoParliament
Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 6 November 2018 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @BLF_SouthAfrica
Website: www.blf.org.za Deputy President: Zanele Lwana
Cell: +27799867225 National Spokesperson: Lindsay Maasdorp
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Head of Media & Communications: Brian Tloubatla
Cell: +27 82 216 7664