By BO Staff Writer When Black First Land First (BLF) called for the firing of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Finance on account of him being compromised and conflicted by virtue of being beholden to white monopoly capital (WMC); as well as when fraud charges were preferred against him in relation to how Ivan Pillay became a SARS Commisioner without the required qualifications – the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) said that all this was linked to stopping the state capture investigation by the then Public Protector (PP) Thuli Madonsela from proceeding on the basis of the evidence that was given to it by the Treasury which was headed by Gordhan. Moreover the EFF insisted that this was part of the plan of the Gupta family to force Gordhan to resign. The EFF further claimed that the Treasury had in fact provided evidence to the PP that the Guptas, assisted by President Zuma, had shifted huge sums of money out of South Africa (SA) and that this amounted to state capture by the Guptas. EFF leader Julius Malema strongly condemned those calling for Gordhan to be fired. He called for the other cabinet ministers – including Mcebisi Jonas, Blade Nzimande, Naledi Pandor, Angie Motshekga and Aaron Motsoaledi – to resign in solidarity should Gordhan be removed as Minister of Finance. He warned these ministers that unless they declined positions offered to them towards reshuffling cabinet they will be serving a Gupta controlled government that will withdraw Treasury’s evidence of state capture by the Guptas. Now the EFF in a statement released two days ago has changed its tune about Gordhan and has accused him of being a ‘master manipulator’, ‘state capturer’ and an ‘accomplice in the Guptas’ activities’. It turns out that Gordhan himself had met with the Guptas. This is according to a statement he made to the Zondo Commission of Inquiry into state capture which was leaked. The EFF says that Gordhan must now ‘explain how Ivan Pillay, his friend, without any qualifications, became SARS Commisioner’. This is inconsistent with its previous statement on this issue. What about the evidence provided by the Gordhan headed Treasury to the PP implicating the Guptas in state capture, now that the EFF has changed its mind about Gordhan? The EFF doesn’t say. While the EFF has never questioned the appointment of Gordhan before it now says that Gordhan ‘must explain how he became Minister of Finance under President Zuma in 2009’. There’s an unfounded suggestion here that the Guptas had made Gordhan Minister of Finance. The evidence suggests otherwise. BLF has consistently pointed out that Pravin Gordhan was compromised as Minister of Finance by virtue of him being in a conflict of interest situation in that he has business interests in the businesses of white monopoly capital who in turn are responsible for getting him hired as Minister of Finance. In this regard and on 27 March 2017, BLF President, Andile Mngxitama, indicated 30 compelling reasons why Pravin Gordhan as the then Minister of Finance was conflicted, compromised and captured by white settler monopoly capital, was consequently not a fit and proper person to be the country’s Minister of Finance, and had to be fired by President Zuma without delay. (link: https://blackopinion.co.za/2017/03/27/30- reasons-pravin-must-go/) Three days later on 30 March 2017, Gordhan was removed from his post as Minister of Finance by President Zuma. ‘The nature of the conflict of interest situation that characterized Gordhan’s tenures as Minister of Finance – and which continues during his current tenure as Minister of Public Enterprises – is reflective of the state being captured by white monopoly capital and not by the Guptas as alleged by the EFF’ the BLF says.