By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published in the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) notes with disdain that the Oppenheimer family has shut down the #TakeBLFtoParliament crowdfunding campaign on the BackaBuddy platform. BLF has intensified its attack on white monopoly capital (WMC) and the Oppenheimer family. To this end it has intervened both in the Parliamentary Committee’s probe into how the Oppenheimer-owned Fireblade Aviation got to operate a private terminal inside the OR Tambo International Airport; and through the laying of criminal charges of fraud, corruption and bribery against Nicky and Johnathan Oppenheimer in that they had illegally acquired an airport terminal inside a national key point which in turn entails their corrupt relationship with the ruling party, the African National Congress (ANC). A few hours after BLF confronted the Oppenheimers, the BackaBuddy platform threatened to shut down the #TakeBLFtoParliament campaign on their website, and yesterday followed through on its threat. No dialogue! No Explanation! White capital showed us its power. BLF had engaged BackaBuddy prior to the launch of the campaign over a period of nearly 3 months and ensured that all criteria was adhered to, yet those who run BackaBuddy contacted BLF to demand that the #TakeBLFtoParliament campaign be cancelled due to it “being divisive”.  BLF notes that all economic platforms are captured by WMC, and that the Oppenheimer family has directly intervened in the BLF campaign that seeks to unite black people towards taking BLF to parliament through funding their own revolution. BackaBuddy is captured by WMC which is clearly shivering from being confronted by BLF in parliament. BackaBuddy has previously helped white supremacist organizations like Solidariteit and AfriForum by hosting their fundraising campaigns to ultimately realize their racist agendas. Whites are united in their ownership, control and management of everything and we have nothing, not even a “free” crowdfunding platform! The Oppenheimers, BackaBuddy and all racists agree that BLF must not be given space because it represents the true and unequivocal rage of the oppressed to end racism and black oppression. They are trying to stop BLF from going to parliament. They will not succeed! BLF will be in parliament in 2019! The oppressed have already given R20 000 and over R120 000 in pledges to BLF in just two days, thus affirming their commitment to liberation despite being landless and economically excluded. BLF calls on the oppressed to intensify the campaign to #TakeBLFtoParliament. BLF will provide an alternative, simpler and more effective way to donate! In the meanwhile all donations may be deposited into our bank account, details of which are as follows: Account Name: Black First Land First
Account Number: 625 7120 2911
Branch: 253 305
Bank: FNB
Reference: Donation
Please note indicating your name in the reference is optional. No retreat, No surrender! Asidlali! Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC)
2 November 2018 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @BLF_SouthAfrica
Website: www.blf.org.za Deputy President: Zanele Lwana
Cell: +27799867225 National Spokesperson: Lindsay Maasdorp
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Head of Media & Communications: Brian Tloubatla
Cell: +27 82 216 7664