By BO Staff Writer The black consciousness organization, Black First Land First (BLF), says that there will be no land expropriation without compensation before the elections. BLF says political parties are using the parliamentary process of amending section 25 of the constitution as a campaigning tool to gain the trust and votes of the poor, landless. Yesterday, the ruling party, African National Congress (ANC), admitted that it will not be able to change before next year’s elections. This public concession was made just hours after the constitutional review committee gave the nod for the house to make changes to section 25 of the constitution. BLF president, Andile Mngxitama, said “These recommendations are superfluous. Please note they are only recommendations. The key question is that this [constitutional review] process was totally unnecessary. It’s not a requirement to amend the constitution. Once a bill is drafted they will have to do another round of public hearings required by law. Such a process will not be done before the elections because of time. The question is why did they waste 9 months?” Read BLF’s statement on the matter below: Black First Land First (BLF) wishes to warn the landless black majority that there will be no land expropriation without compensation. Cyril Ramaphosa and Julius Malema are deliberately lying to our people so that they can get votes in the upcoming 2019 general elections. They are treating the very serious land crisis our people are faced with as a political football. BLF warns that in the last 9 months nothing has changed, the Constitutional Review Committee (CRC) has simply told us what was said in parliament in February and what we have long known, that there must be land expropriation without compensation. We have not moved 1 inch. BLF wants the oppressed to know that the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and the African National Congress (ANC) have a 2/3rds majority in parliament but have not tabled a motion to effect a bill to achieve land expropriation without compensation. It is all a lie for votes. BLF says to the oppressed if the ANC and the EFF do not give land expropriation without compensation then they do not deserve the trust of the people through the vote. Only BLF will fight for the return of land! ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT (BLF NCC) 13 November 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664