By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published in the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) applauds the revolutionary living legacy of President Zuma. Part of this legacy is President Zuma‘s work in strengthening relations with African countries that played a role during the struggles against slavery, apartheid and colonialism – including Mozambique. He ensured that SA and Mozambique put effort into strengthening their historical relationship and benefit from their geographical proximity. President Zuma’s work – via the Bi-National Commission (BNC) in furtherance of bringing Mozambique and South Africa closer so as to facilitate the strengthening of their relations in all areas of mutual cooperation, is indeed unprecedented of a president post 1994. To this end with his counterpart in Mozambique a BNC, structured and chaired by the two relevant Heads of State , was signed on December 13, 2011, and inaugurated in October 2015. This led to a number bilateral agreements being concluded including a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Transport, Tourism, Communications, Maritime Security Cooperation, and Frequency Bands. As at the end of 2017 there were about 300 South African entities operating in Mozambique in various fields including financial services, retail, hospitality, and energy. President Zuma’s efforts has again born beautiful fruit via the various MoUs especially on transport. In this context the opening of Africa’s longest suspension bridge stretching from Catembe to Maputo and the new road which runs between Kosi Bay in KwaZulu Natal and Maputo, is warmly welcomed and applauded. What used to be a four to six hours drive from South Africa to Mozambique has been shortened to a 90 minutes journey via the two roads which interlinks with the great Zuma suspension bridge. The West as we know via the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) – which furthers the agenda of western imperialism in cahoots with settler white monopoly capital – suspended its programme with Mozambique around 2016 causing donors who previously supported the Mozambican state budget to stop their contributions. In this context we are proud of the efforts of the SA government, led by President Zuma, which together with China intervened in furtherance of the mutually beneficial BRICS agenda which was aimed at implementing measures towards economic transformation and developing relations with strategic international cooperation partners. Zuma – as we experienced was seen to be too problematic to white capital in that he was too close to BRICS which poses a serious threat to western dominance over the world – was subsequently removed from power via a Brazilian like coup and replaced by the imperialist puppet, Cyril Ramaphosa. We give thanks to President Zuma for his successful efforts in shortening the distance between SA and Mozambique. This is a huge step towards uniting Africa on a program of Radical Economic Transformation (RET) and dissolving the colonial borders. While the Ramaphosa government is hellbent on reversing every revolutionary gain made during the Zuma tenures and to a large extent have succeeded, BLF as the custodians of the Zuma bequeathed baton of RET is determined to continue the struggle including via parliamentary means. #BLFapplaudsZumaBridge
#TakeBLFtoParliament Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC)
11 November 2018 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za International Relations Secretary
Shantha Balakrishna
Cell number: +27 72 114 3670 Deputy President: Zanele Lwana
Cell: +27799867225 National Spokesperson: Lindsay Maasdorp
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Head of Media & Communications: Brian Tloubatla
Cell: +27 82 216 7664