By BO Staff Writer The black consciousness political party, Black First Land First (BLF), says the leader of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), Julius Malema, is plagiarising them. In a statement released on Wednesday, BLF said, “The EFF have flip flopped on several occassions, later looking to BLF for direction on all major political decisions so to seem like they are self correcting.” Read the full BLF statement below: Julius Malema is plagiarising BLF Black First Land First (BLF) notes the plaigarism by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader, Julius Malema. The EFF have flip flopped on several occassions, later looking to BLF for direction on all major political decisions so to seem like they are self correcting. EFF marched with AfriForum, the Democratic Alliance (DA) and others to protect Pravin Gordhan. Today they repeat BLF’s call for Gordhan to go, list the very aspects relating to Gordhan’s daughter, Anisha, which BLF mentioned 18 months ago. BLF has no problem with the open plaigarism, because BLF is the ideological spear in Azania that leads the fight against white monopoly capital. Simultaneously, BLF notes that the EFF has no sincerity and thus dilutes and watersdown the fight against white monopoly capital. The EFF is fighting Gordhan like two house slaves desperate to impress the master. BLF thus calls on Malema to display a sincere commitment to fighting white monopoly capital, by undertaking the following: i) Apologise to President Jacob Zuma, Hlaudi Motsoeneng, Dudu Myeni, Mosebenzi Zwane and Brian Molefe. ii) Cut ties with London, Stellenbosch and Adrianno Mazzoti iii) Cut ties with Helen Zille, apologise for giving land thieves political power in Tshwane, Johannesburg & Nelson Mandela Bay and give a guarantee that you will never again give black people’s votes to whites. iv) Account fully for VBS, repent and undertake a lifestyle audit. ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT (BLF NCC) 21 November 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664