The racist Democratic Alliance (DA) has declared war on our revolutionary movement. The party of Helen Zille the colonialist and Tony Leon the son of the apartheid hanging judge Ramon Leon (who dismissed Solomon Mahlangu’s appeal against the death sentence and sentenced Andrew Zondo to the noose) wants to ban Black First Land First (BLF) from Parliament. We note the new threat by the racist party of land thieves that it will seek to have BLF banned. We consider this threat a declaration of war against our movement. BLF shall therefore defend itself to the full extent of its revolutionary ethics. The land thieves are scared! BLF is not a fake revolutionary movement that will gift land thieves with political power in the metropolitan municipalities. Our movement will be undertaking a process to identify the farms and even private homes of the white leaders of the DA for a people led expropriation process. These farms and houses will be expropriated by the people themselves to fulfill the process of land expropriation without compensation. The DA is a fascist party of land thieves. It has no right to exist in South Africa (SA). It is an insult that we have allowed land thieves so much power including to run the lives of our people. The anti black racism going on inside the DA right now is nothing new or exceptional – that’s what the DA is. BLF calls on all black DA members to leave the party that hates them and join hands with us to end racism and landlessness amongst blacks. The DA is scared of the black truth of BLF but it can’t do anything to stop that. BLF will be in parliament in 2019! Black people need a voice in parliament and that voice is BLF! Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC)
1 November 2018 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @BLF_SouthAfrica
Website: www.blf.org.za Deputy President: Zanele Lwana
Cell: +27799867225 National Spokesperson: Lindsay Maasdorp
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Head of Media & Communications: Brian Tloubatla
Cell: +27 82 216 7664