By BO Staff Writer The following statement was first published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Our movement, Black First Land First (BLF), is concerned that parliament is making a mockery of the process regarding public submissions on the review of section 25 of the constitution relating to land expropriation without compensation (LEWC). The report that parliament has received 700 000 submissions is simply not true. Parliament seems to be giving legitimacy to the gerrymandering program of the historical land thieves represented by the racist AfriForum. It’s a known fact that AfriForum has been employing an online petition to send what is essentially one message, thousands of times to the Constitutional Review Committee (CRC). This is a thinly veiled attempt at skewing the submission process in favour of land thieves. The submission process is not a referendum but a deliberative process to deal with substantive arguments. Accepting AfriForum’s so called submissions amounts to turning a public engagement process into a referendum through the back door. We also note the referendum style online petition by “Dear South Africa” that seeks to establish whether the people “object or support amendments to the constitution” and to ascertain their reasons for their responses. The mandate of the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces to the CRC clearly suggests parliament’s resolution to effect LEWC and accordingly the only thing left to establish and elaborate, is how this should be done. The petition of Dear South Africa too is maliciously intended to flood the submission process so as to influence public opinion in favour of land thieves. BLF has made substantial submissions to the CRC which is tasked with receiving and processing submissions. Our movement already has massive misgivings about the processing of the motion on LEWC. The BLF submissions outline these misgivings. The whole process was designed to delay any land redistribution and use the land question as a political footbal for the 2019 elections. BLF calls on parliament to immediately give a commitment that it will deal with all of AfriForum’s multiple messages as one. If AfriForum wants a referendum, let it say so. We blacks have waited for more than 350 years for our land. Parliament is cautioned not to lend any more support to land thieves and their agents. Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 17 June 2018 Black First Land First Email: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664