By BO Staff Writer The #MngxitamaOnSundayLive show revealed details of the plans of white monopoly capital (WMC) for next year’s national government elections. The anchor of the show Andile Mngxitama, who is also the President of Black First Land First (BLF), told his viewers that “Project 2019” was designed in London by Robin Renwick. The main objective of the plan is to reduce the African National Congress (ANC) majority and usher in a pro-WMC coalition government that will be constituted of the ANC, Democratic Alliance (DA) and Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). The coalition government will be sold to the public as a “government of national unity” post the Zuma administration. According to Mngxitama, Project 2019 was piloted in the 2016 local government elections (LGE) which saw the self-identified Marxist Leninist EFF giving political power to the self proclaimed pro-Israeli, capitalist, Zionist and colonialism praising DA of Helen Zille. The 2016 LGE pilot is considered a great victory by both London and Stellenbosch. Now they want it as a national reality. The stumbling block to project 2019 is the relative electoral strength of the ANC. Mngxitama told viewers that to get around this hurdle, London has resolved that Ramaphosa should actively destroy the ANC. This explains the irrational and provocative attacks on King Goodwill Zwelithini’s stature as well as the threats to destroy the Ingonyama Trust. The continued harassment of the pro Radical Economic Transformation (RET) KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) leaders of the ANC is part of a deliberate campaign to weaken the ANC election prowess so as to facilitate the realization of the Project 2019 objective of attaining a coalition government made up of the ANC, DA and EFF. It is believed that KZN is targeted primarily because of its large contribution to the ANC electoral pull and because the province is seen as hostile to WMC. Project 2019 seems to be on course. If by some miracle the impasse between Luthuli House and the ANC in KZN is broken before the elections, plan B is that Cyril Ramaphosa will use his prerogative to make ministerial appointments that will bring in key figures in both the DA and EFF to establish a government of national unity and thereby realize Project 2019, Mngxitama predicted. Watch episode 5 of #MngxitamaOnSundayLive here featuring ‘NEWS THAT DID NOT MAKE THE NEWS!’ that was broadcast live from Durban on 10 June 2018. 