The following letter was first published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Mônica Valente
International Relations Secretary
Workers’ Party (PT)
Email: sri@pt.org.br And to: Romênio Pereira
National Secretáry General
Email: sgn@pt.org.br 13 August 2018 Comrades BLF STANDS IN SOLIDARITY WITH LULA AND THE BRAZILIAN PEOPLE Black First Land First (BLF) is a revolutionary movement in South Africa (SA) which is also registered with the Independent Electoral Commission of SA as a political party. We welcome the decision of the Workers’ Party (PT) to declare as your presidential candidate for the upcoming presidential elections, the former President of  Brazil, Luis Inacio “Lula” da Silva (Lula). It is also clear that the people of Brazil want Lula to be President because he has lifted them out of abject poverty and famine during his two previous terms as President. BLF condemns the defamation campaign against Lula that has been escalating since the imperialist sponsored removal of the democratically elected President Dilma Rousseff in 2016 and her replacement by Michel Temer. The same forces that removed Rousseff from office – by a mere 62 senators overturning the votes of 54 million people – are trying their damnedest to prevent Lula from contesting the 2018 presidential elections. We denounce the unjust conviction and imprisonment of Lula, in January this year, on bogus charges which lacked material evidence. We join the other progressive forces of the world in expressing our solidarity with Lula by demanding his immediate release from prison and his right to be a candidate. We note that on 8 July 2018 Judge Rogerio Favreto of Brazil’s 4th Regional Federal Court ordered the immediate release of Lula from prison and the US puppet, Judge Sergio Moro, instantly ordered the police not to execute the release warrant. BLF was not surprised by this as it was a further expression of the judiciary’s capture by imperialism in cohorts with the conservative right wing forces in Brazil. It must also be stated that Lula’s right to a fair trail was denied in that, for instance, Judge Sergio Moro (who was not impartial) had actually admitted to contravening the law by ‘wiretapping’ Lula’s defence lawyers illegally, but was nonetheless allowed to continue to preside ‘over his own investigation’. We also note that while all of the other candidates are openly making false accusations against Lula, he has not been afforded the right of reply to defend himself because of his imprisonment. This is a clear violation of his political right to campaign. The defamation campaign against Lula is tactically conducted in this year of elections when Comrade Lula is clearly the undisputed lead-runner for the presidency notwithstanding his incarceration in solitary confinement for over 100 days and him being banned from giving interviews during this period. BLF condemns with contempt all reactionary efforts and campaigns against Lula. We stand with Lula and the millions of Brazilians struggling for real democracy and radical change in the country. #FreeLula
#BLFInSolidarityWithLula Sincerely BLF International Relations Secretary: Shantha Balakrishna Contact Details: Black First Land First Email: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za
Shantha Balakrishna
Cell number: +27 72 114 3670 Secretary General
Siphesihle Ayanda Jele
Cell number: 0728417579