By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: In the afternoon of this year’s Good Friday, the USA-based leadership of the African People’s Socialist Party (APSP) met with the leadership of Black First Land First (BLF) in Johannesburg. The delegation of the APSP was led by its leader and globally respected revolutionary, Chairman Omali Yeshitela, while the BLF delegation was led by its president, Andile Mngxitama. The historic meeting was held at the BLF head office in Gandhi Square.  The objective of the meeting was for BLF to formally meet with APSP and discuss the possibility of cooperation between these two pro-black, anti-imperialist, anti-capitalist formations. The meeting kick-started with introductions and then each organization outlined its ideological framework and programmes.  A robust debate followed where points of disagreement were isolated and recognised, while points of agreement were also identified. The meeting ended on a high note after the debate clarified that the two organisations have more in common than disagreements.  The APSP has committed itself to inviting BLF to its important meetings in the USA and BLF in turn expressed its wish to invite Chairman Yeshitela back to the country. An exciting area of possible cooperation and learning is community economic development. BLF is keen to learn from the APSP.  In the context of Azania/South Africa, the cooperation is likely to find expression in the BLF land occupation programme. The two organisations put an emphasis on cooperation to defeat the sytem of white supremacy which is inherently capitalist and evil.  BLF is looking forward to strengthening its commitment to revolutionary internationalism. The meeting today is historic for us and we are excited about working together with the APSP.  ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT (BLF NCC) 30 March 2018 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@ gmail.com Zanele Lwana
BLF Deputy President
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664