By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First – Western Cape (BLF-WC) opened a case of fraud and corruption at the Mossel Bay SAPS station, against the DA-led Mossel Bay municipality, in relation to the fraudulent mishandling of houses that rightfully belong to community members. The main culprit is thoroughbred white racist, Riaan Pienaar, the Director of housing in the DA-led municipality that has been terrorising black people since the early 90s. Pienaar is involved in the gross misconduct of the housing department that has led to unlawful evictions of black people from their homes, undue transfers of RDP houses, withholding of title deeds and the illegal re-selling of houses to fill the pockets of individuals in the department. Members of the Kwanonqaba community had laid several complaints and charges at the Mossel Bay Municipality, the SAPS and with an ANC councillor regarding the fraudulent activities, however their complaints fell on deaf ears. It is clear that there is bipartisan corruption taking place and that the likes of Pienaar in the municipality’s housing department, only seek to exploit the already oppressed black community to enrich themselves. BLF-WC leadership met with Brigadier Jantjies of the Mossel Bay SAPS, to stipulate a clear action plan and he has agreed to conclude the existing cases within 14 and 30 days respectively. Brigadier Jantjies will investigate the conduct and inaction of the SAPS in Kwanonqaba as well as ensure that the new case of fraud and corruption against the Mossel Bay Municipality gets the necessary priority that it demands. Due to the seriousness of the matter, he will also deliver bi-weekly feedback.  BLF-WC berates the bipartisan corruption orchestrated by the DA and the ANC to simply ensure poor black people remain landless and homeless. We also condemn the complicity of the SAPS in Kwanonqaba. BLF-WC will monitor these matters, add further cases as they arise from the community of Kwanonqaba and provide regular updates, ensuring that a swift positive conclusion is reached. The case number as received is CAS 122/3/2018. ISSUED BY THE PROVINCIAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT – WESTERN CAPE (BLF-WC PCC) 16 March 2018 Contact Details
Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Ncedisa Mpemnyama
(BLF-WC Chairperson)
Cell: 073 110 0334 Feziwe Sigqumo
(BLF-WC Secretary)
Cell: 085 953 3374 