By BO Staff Wrtier The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) had warned the landless people of South Africa (SA) against the parliamentary fraud on land. The mainstream media has greatly assisted politicians to advance the lie that Land Expropriation Without Compensation (LEWC) will be achieved any time soon. The truth is that the Constitution won’t be amended before the 2019 general elections. Politicians are playing political games for votes. The Constitutional Review Committee (Committee) tasked with “reviewing” section 25 of the Constitution has explained its mandate. The Committee says it will call for “public participation” from May 8th, 2018 starting in the Limpopo Province. The hearings are to gauge the “necessity” and “mechanism” for LEWC. In other words, the Committee will not be putting amendments before parliament in August this year but will be submitting recommendations from the “public hearings”. The landless have been lied to. The whole parliamentary motion was a stunt to garner support in the 2019 elections – it was not for land return without payment. It was an act of propaganda to deceive our people into thinking that an agreement has been reached to amend the Constitution. Now the Committee is going back to seek the opinions of the public on a matter where national consensus has long been achieved. This is a delaying tactic. BLF wishes to remind the landless majority that there has already been public hearings on land expropriation – a Bill to this effect is with the Public Works Portfolio Committee in parliament. All that was needed was to amend that Bill so as to bring it in line with the proposed constitutional amendments and if necessary test the enhanced Bill via public hearings. This would have ensured that the Constitution is amended before the 2019 elections. BLF calls on our people to make it clear to all the political parties in parliament that if no amendment of section 25 of the Constitution is realized before the 2019 elections, then they will not vote for liars. Lets stop politicians from lying and making empty promises. Land expropriation without compensation NOW – is possible! BLF won’t wait for parliament and liars. We shall continue with people-driven LEWC. The land is ours! Land or death! ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT (BLF NCC) 23 March 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664