By BO Staff Writer The Judicial Commission of Inquiry (JCOI) into state capture headed by Judge Zondo today heard evidence from both Absa and FNB in its inquiry into the closure of the Gupta linked bank accounts. When several Black First Land First (BLF) leaders led by their Deputy President, Zanele Lwana, attempted to attend the inquiry they were denied access to what is supposed to be a public hearing. The two provisions of the Commissions Act 8 of 1947 that have relevance to the BLF  being denied access into a public JCOI today are section 4  ‘Sittings to be public’ and section 5  ‘Hindering or obstructing a commission’. Firstly, in terms of section 4 of the Commissions Act, the Commission is a public forum. Moreover it is only the chairperson of the commission who can ‘exclude … any class of persons or all persons whose presence at the hearing of such evidence or address is, in his opinion not necessary or desirable’. Secondly, there is no intimation that BLF had willfully hindered, obstructed or interrupted the commission’s proceedings in any way as suggested in section 5 of the Commissions Act. Evidently, BLF was not excluded from the forum by the chairperson of the JCOI, but by the South African Police Services (SAPS), and on no sound basis. ‘BLF wishes to give a stern warning, no black person will continue to be treated inhumanely by the commission. … We are ready to submit evidence that will expose white monopoly capital’, says BLF spokesperson, Lindsay Maasdorp. BLF has consistently since March 2016 been championing for the institution of a Judicial Commission of Inquiry into state capture. In December 2016 it had reportedly
called for the limited scope of the JCOI into state capture to be extended to allow for all complaints on state capture including on the Guptas, the Ruperts and the banks. The movement will shortly be submitting in excess of 22 matters for inquiry to the JCOI including the Oppenheimer illegal international airport acquisition; capture of the judiciary; Marikana massacre; corruption by Johann Rupert and 8 others regarding the firing of Des Van Rooyen and hiring of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Finance; corruption by Coleman Andrews and Bain & Company; pre and post apartheid era corruption and other economic crimes amounting to R563 billion; disappearance of R12 billion by Steinhoff; disappearance of over R4.3 billion during the tenures of Pravin Gordhan and Nhlanhla Nene; crimes of Mazzotti, media corruption, etc The Commission resumes its inquiry into the closure of the Gupta associated bank accounts tomorrow.