By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First, KwaZulu-Natal (BLF KZN) supports the brave call by members of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in KZN for their president, Julius Malema, to apologize for (and retract) his contemptuous remarks against Zulu King, Goodwill Zwelithini, relating to the said King’s custodianship of land in the Ingonyama Trust. Malema has publicly and recklessly called for land held by the black Ingonyama Trust to be expropriated. His utterances are a call to war between blacks and amounts to a rejection of correcting the historical colonial theft of black lands by whites. It is unnecessary and hinders black unity towards expropriating the productive 80% of the land currently in white hands. Julius Malema needs to be taught some finer lessons about the land struggle against colonialism. He must stop using public platforms to talk haphazardly about the land that our people are so inextricably invested in, in their quest to regain their dignity and being. The land struggle in KZN has followed a long, tortuous path. It started long before political party formations and has its origins in the times when Ubukhosi was the sole governance of the people. King Dingaan was the first to take up arms against the settlers in defence of this land and King Cetshwayo defeated the settlers at Isandlwana against colonial land theft. The Ingonyama Trust is not a colonial land thief. The land that it controls via the King’s custodianship is under the correct collective ownership of the people. It is actually cowardice on the part of Malema to seek to expropriate the little remaining land that is still under black control and to leave the vast majority of our land to remain in white hands. We note that just like how Cyril Ramaphosa’s African National Congress (ANC) abandoned Radical Economic Transformation (RET) for the racist Democratic Alliance’s ‘New Dawn’ agenda, the EFF led by Julius Malema has abandoned the economic freedom fight that the movement has branded itself on. Evidently the EFF is in cahoots with the ANC and the DA to dispossess the dispossessed by campaigning for the dissolution of the Ingonyama Trust that holds land in black interests. The only authentic representative of RET, we maintain, is the BLF. We call on Julius Malema to do the right thing – apologize to King Zwelithini! #HandsOffIngonyamaTrust Issued by Black First Land First, KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Coordinating Committee (BLF-KZN PCC) 12 April 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Contact Details : Thobani Zikalala
(Provincial Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 74 246 7848 Lwazi Ntombela
(Provincial Chairperson)
Cell: +27 82 588 0835 Tiki Shabane
(Provincial Secretary )
Cell: +27736370053