By BO Staff Writer The following statement was first published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: The United States (US) Embassy has congratulated an American company which was awarded one of the renewable energy deals at Eskom on 4 April this week. The speed at which the Minister of Energy, Jeff Radebe, moved to sign agreements with 27 Independent Power Producers (IPPs) shows that white monopoly capital (WMC) has captured the state. The shocking truth is that the majority of the companies getting cuts out of the R1.4 trillion deal are part of WMC and to this end are US and European companies. President Zuma was persecuted by the racist civil society organizations and the London controlled political parties that demonized the nuclear deal on the basis its supposed non affordability. It is now clear that WMC and imperialism wanted the deal for themselves in the form of IPPs On Wednesday the US government, through its embassy in Pretoria congratulated Solar Reserve for clinching one of the lucrative contracts. It is now evident that those who shouted the loudest about state capture were only unhappy because they believed the state was getting out of their grip. The IPPs will cost 40 000 jobs! These are black people who will suffer. This is the “new dawn” of Cyril Ramaphosa. The only stumbling block to this mass looting by WMC was President Zuma. Now he is gone from office and the floodgates are open. Black First Land First (BLF) supports the call by the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) that Cyril Ramaphosa must instruct Jeff Radebe to stop the IPPs without further ado. We call on society to mobilize to stop the unaffordable IPPs. BLF reiterates its call for the racist, sexist Mark Lamberti to be removed from the Eskom Board of Directors, forthwith. It is clear that if we don’t stop Cyril Ramaphosa, before we know it the country will be gone completely to Europe and the US.
Issued by the National Executive Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 7 April 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664