By BO Staff Writer The following statement was first published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) agrees with the President of the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU), Comrade Union president Joseph Mathunjwa, that both Cyril Ramaphosa and Julius Malema must stop abusing the Marikana massacre for their narrow interests. It is clear that the two old friends are now using the massacre, engineered by Cyril Ramaphosa, to rekindle their political romance. There is a drive to whitewash the Marikana massacre and to unjustifiably absolve Cyril Ramaphosa of guilt. This means that there will be no real justice. He will get away without fully accounting for the mass killings of workers for profits and escaping the appropriate penalty for his sins, including the payment of reparations. We have seen how Malema has changed his tune on Ramaphosa. He has moved from calling him the ‘murderer of Marikana’ to declaring him as the ‘president who must be respected’. Mathunjwa is correct when he says: “The EFF and the ANC have no organisational rights in that mine, therefore, it is very wrong to suggest that the EFF is the gatekeeper for the State President to meet the widows. Those widows are organised, and they are under the banner of AMCU. We are the only trade union there”. BLF is encouraged by the principled stance of AMCU. We have to always remember that Ramaphosa called for the “concomitant action” against the workers in service of the interests of Lonmin, which is a London based mining house. We must also not forget that Julius Malema has powerful handlers in London – Lord Robin Renwick, amongst others. So the bromance between Mokone and Matamela is a London project signed on the blood of the Marikana workers. BLF calls for full disclosure of the truth from Ramaphosa on how Lonmin has used him against black workers. Furthermore, we encourage Ramaphosa to approach the legitimate organizations representing the workers and their families to ask for forgiveness as well as pay reparations for the brutal murder of their loved ones for profit. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee (BLF NCC)
19 April 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664