By BO Staff Writer The following article was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) has been reliably informed that the ongoing protests in the North West province are funded by white monopoly capital (WMC) to stop Radical Economic Transformation (RET). Members of the community who have been coerced with money and others who have been promised money have fingered China Dodovu and Collen Maine as the organisers of the well funded mayhem. The protests are part of the program of the Cyril Ramaphosa faction to use money to sponsor a counter revolutionary situation in the North West. The main objective is to remove the North West Premier, Supra Mahumapelo, because he is seen as a supporter of President Zuma. Mahumapelo has also frightened the corrupt backers of Ramaphosa by calling for a comprehensive probe into corruption in the province. The plan is to try and remove Mahumapelo so that the corruption is not dealt with. China Dodovu, the ring leader of the WMC funded protest, is a controversial figure in North West politics. Dodovu is a former Member of the Executive Council (MEC) of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs as well as the provincial deputy chairperson. He was arrested and charged in 2013 – together with the now North West secretary of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Papiki Babuile – for the murder of Oubuti Chika in the run up to the Mangaung elective conference of the African National Congress (ANC) in 2012. At the time he was killed Chika was the regional secretary of the Dr Kenneth Kaunda district in the North West Province. Mahumapelo has named Dodovu as one of the people who must be probed for corruption. The protests are a pre-emptive strike to evade the investigation into corruption. BLF accordingly calls for the following: 1. Ramaphosa must immediately distance himself from the sponsored protests in the North West. 2. Ramaphosa and his WMC backers must immediately desist from paying poor people to cause mayhem in the North West. 3. All those who have been paid or promised money to embark on the protests in the North West, must come forward and tell the truth. 4. Our people in the North West must refuse to be used by those who are responsible for the Marikana massacre – if they love you, they should be sharing the wealth of the province with you. 5. A Commission of Inquiry into the current protests in the North West must be instituted without delay so that the truth can come out. The people of the North West Province are experiencing genuine service delivery challenges which must be addressed appropriately. In this context, we must refuse to be used by counter revolutionary forces who have been bought to stop RET. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC)
28 April 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664