By BO Staff Writer The following article was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) is appalled by the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) new rules that anyone competing in an international women’s race at 400m, 800m and 1500m must reduce their natural testosterone to a standerdized level. These races are oddly specific to Caster Semenya. The report says that Caster Semenya must either lower her testosterone levels, compete in longer distances or quit the sport. BLF notes that there are no changes for men’s races and that the changes don’t even apply to all women’s races, just those specific to Caster Semenya. This is clearly a racist index that is deliberately in place to slow down the double Olympic gold medallist and trailblazer. The IAAF has appointed itself the regulator of black women’s bodies. The ‘Caster Semenya Clause’ basically means that she must destroy her healthy endocrine system by lowering her natural testosterone level in order to compete. This prerequisite chemical castration is a gross violation of human rights! Queer black bodies are not guinea pigs for white supremacist sport commissions. We also note with disgust that the evil vendetta that IAAF has against Caster Semenya has been going on for almost a decade given that they introduced a similar rule after Semenya’s victory at the 2009 IAAF World Championships. The message they are trying to send to black women is that they can participate in sports but not excel and they can thrive just not too much. Such is the modus operandi of whiteness, to protect unseasoned white women from their own mediocrity and protect them from being out-shined by a queer black woman. BLF urges the Minstry of Sports and Recreation as well as the Ministry of Women to intervene and protect Caster Semenya. We also urge all black people to defend Caster Semenya against these evil racist bullies. IAAF must not win! #HandsOffCasterSemenya! Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee (BLF NCC) 26 April 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Thabi Myeni
(Secretary of Gender and Sexuality)
Cell:+27765323903 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664 