By BO Staff Writer Deputy president of the ‘Reds of London’ did a sneaky “slyza tsotsi” on a long scheduled panel discussion on land expropriation without compensation happening at the University of South Africa (Unisa) today. Floyd Shivambu, who is the second in command to Julius Malema in the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), was scheduled to speak at a 14h00 panel discussion titled: The Expropriation of Land Without Compensation: A Philosophical, Legal, Economic & a Theological Challenge. He was to be on the panel with Black First Land First (BLF) President and long time scholar and activist on the land question, Andile Mngxitama – who has long called for a public debate with both Shivambu and Malema. Last year, Mngxitama called for a public debate with the leadership of the EFF to discuss amongst other things, the EFF’s change in policy and tone after they returned from London, where they met well-known imperialist warlord, Robin Renwick. The proposed public debate would also discuss the rationale of the EFF giving political power to racists of the Democratic Alliance (DA) in order to “punish” the African National Congress (ANC). Mngxitama wrote to Malema and said: “Julius, you are used to monologues not dialogues. You are spoilt by applause, not engagement. You lie and contradict yourself at will. You amuse your way out of telling the truth because your supposed interlocutors are mere cheerleaders. Are you able to have a real debate, where your insults won’t help you or you aren’t talking to a stadium full of hopeless blacks who have put their hopes on you?” Others who are part of the land panel are Chris Malikane, Wits professor and former advisor to Malusi Gigaba in the treasury department, Luthando Mbinda, one of many Pan-Africanist Congress (PAC) presidents (depending on which faction you follow), Themba Godi, African People’s Convention (APC) president, Khanyisile Litchfield Tshabalala and Mandisa Masego, EFF Gauteng Chairperson who replaces Shivambu. Responding to Shivambu’s sudden disappearance, Mngxitama said he would “contend with leader Mandisa” and alluded to the fact that BLF would be in parliament after the 2019 national elections and there would be “no place to hide” for Shivambu and his ilk. No related posts.