By BO Staff Writer The following statement was first published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) stands with the People’s President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil who is being persecuted by the west. In South Africa (SA) we have a similar situation where our People’s President, Comrade JG Zuma, suffers the same fate. Currently, both our nations are under assault from western capitalist imperialism that is hellbent on securing and strengthening its stranglehold on our resources and our people. The only crime in the eyes of this enemy is that both Lula and Zuma want to liberate the oppressed people from its grip and ensure that they attain total freedom. Quite evidently, the attack on President Lula is part of the imperialist plan to decimate the BRICS project through the vilification of its leaders. They execute their plan by employing internal reactionary agents within the political fabric of our respective countries. The west is terrified by the prospect of Lula returning to office for a third term as Brazil’s President and continuing the programme of radically changing the lives of the country’s majority. Yet again, the same situation prevails in SA. With Lula out of the way in Brazil – just like with Zuma out of the way in SA – the right wing restoration via the collusion of the ruling party with imperialism is complete. BLF rejects the finding of guilty by the Brazilian court in respect of Lula. There can be no real justice via colonial institutions like courts. Obviously the court erred both in its finding and its shockingly harsh sentence of 12 years imprisonment – deliberately so. The allegations of corruption against Lula were empty and moreover concocted by imperialism. Absolutely no court dispensing true people’s justice would have convicted Lula. BLF recognises the role that the left has played in defence of Lula throughout these trying times. Your commitment to keep the peoples president out of jail, by literally stopping him from handing himself over, is admirable. We draw strength from the actions of the left led by the Workers Party (PT) and the people of Brazil in defence of Lula. BLF sends its revolutionary solidarity to all of the progressive forces in Brazil. The struggle continues! #HandsOffZuma #HandsOffDaSilva #DefendBRICS Issued by the National Executive Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 7 April 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664