By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) calls on the Portfolio Committee on Public Enterprises (Committee) to immediately stop the harassment of Ms Dudu Myeni. It is clear that the Committee is driven by political vendettas against black leaders who are seen as proponents of Radical Economic Transformation (RET). Ms Myeni is being harassed and demonized for her gallant effort to protect the South African Airways (SAA) from being sold to white monopoly capital (WMC). She is being hounded for pushing for black empowerment at the national carrier when she was chairperson of the SAA board. BLF also calls upon the HAWKS to refuse to be used in the political witch-hunt on the opponents of the Stellenbosch mafia which in turn, is now operating freely after the removal of President Zuma. It is shocking that the HAWKS have jumped on mere media hysteria but have not done anything about the criminal case that BLF has opened against Markus Jooste whose corruption has caused the loss of R18 billion from the state coffers. BLF is furthermore enraged by the fact that the Committee, which is harassing Ms Myeni, is scared of Markus Jooste, the corrupt former Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Steinhoff. Jooste has refused point-blank to appear before the Committee which has no
qualms to send the HAWKS after Ms Myeni. This is an insult, not just to Ms Myeni, but to the entire black population. BLF calls on parliament to stop the harassment of Ms Dudu Myeni forthwith. Furthermore, parliament must apologize for demonizing her and for the unjustifiable and unwarranted attacks on her integrity. We call on the Committee to immediately summon the arrogant and corrupt former CEO of Steinhoff to appear before it so as to account for the billions lost through his corruption. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC)
19 April 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664