By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) is outraged by the vindictive and hateful behaviour of Cyril Ramaphosa towards the People’s President, Comrade Zuma. Ramaphosa has withdrawn the appeal, previously instituted by the Presidency under Zuma, to overturn the decision of the High Court including the equally vindictive and hateful R10 million cost order imposed on Zuma in his personal capacity. The said High Court cost order was part of the finding in the application where the Presidency took the state capture report of the former Public Protector, Thuli Madonsela, on review and asked that it be set aside. The cost order was made a personal responsibility of Cde Zuma to comply with, despite the fact that he instituted the application in the interests of the state and accordingly in his capacity as the State President. Furthermore, there were no compelling reasons for such a punitive order of cots to imposed on him. The judiciary has allowed itself to be used for political reasons. We saw the same shockingly harsh cost order being imposed against the Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mhkwebane, after she ruled that ABSA must pay back the money that it stole from the South African Reserve Bank (SARB). The timing of the withdrawal of the appeal by Ramaphosa is also instructive. The “New Dawn” pro white monopoly capital (WMC) hateful forces of Ramaphosa waited until the court day to unleash their hatred towards Zuma. WMC hates Zuma because he is the father of radical economic transformation (RET). But the masses of our people love President Zuma. BLF calls on Ramaphosa to stop his hateful project against Zuma and to reinstate the appeal to overturn the absurd ruling. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 15 April 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664