By Phapano Phasha Are you aware that Kagiso Trust Investments (Kagiso Trust) is a subsidiary of the South African Council of Churches and is today worth billions? In fact one is bound to ask if Kagiso Trust is not captured since its business and value chain is derived from its partnership with the Rupert and Oppenheimer controlled companies such as First Rand Bank, Anglo American, Murray & Roberts and the Rupert media empire, Element One. Interestingly where you find Kagiso Trust with one of its prominent directors, being Reverend Frank Chikane the former Director General (DG) of the former Deputy President Thabo Mbeki, you are also likely to find Zanele Mbeki and Jay Naidoo – where all of these individuals through their companies co-own First National Bank (FNB) through the First Rand Bank Empowerment Fund which was facilitated by Johan Rupert himself. Kagiso Trust and Wiphold of Zanele Mbeki are also business partners of the Oppenheimer controlled Anglo American through a Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) company called Anglo Inyosi which controls the supply of coal at Eskom. A R7 billion coal contract, which was signed in September 2007 being three months before the African National Congress (ANC) December Elective Conference in Polokwane, made Wiphold and Kagiso Trust majority BEE partners. Then there is the capture of transport through road construction, aviation and the ports which saw the above companies going into partnership with Murray & Roberts and a Canadian company called Bombadier in terms of which a 2007 contract/alliance which became known as Africa Alliance, was concluded. Gautrain is a business model which is subsidized by the Gauteng Government with billions so as to facilitate its ‘smooth running’. It is however not really making profit. Bombardier through Africa Alliance has also made billions at Transnet and Prasa including via the construction of mega infrastructure projects in road construction through Murray & Roberts which is a ruthless mafioza company known for colluding and manipulating prices. The Rupert owned Remgro through Element One has also ensured that Kagiso Trust benefits from the multi billion media industry by allocating BEE shares to which Kagiso Trust has direct interest in the Sunday Times, Sunday World, Sowetan etc. Hence it was also not a coincidence to see Vuyisa Nkonyeni of Kagiso Tiso Investments as signatory number 32 of the 81 Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) who last year signed a pledge against the removal of Pravin Gordhan. Will the South African Council of Churches be implicated in the State Capture Commission of Inquiry? Could it be the reason that the church came out guns blazing to attack and interfere with the Office of the Public Protector? Did Frank Chikane with Thabo Mbeki influence government tenders which were ultimately given to the Oppenheimer’s and the Rupert’s who subsequently co-opted companies linked to the two? Could it be the reason why former President Thabo Mbeki, at an event hosted by Power FM, denied that white monopoly capital exists to the extent of defending the Rupert’s? Is it also the reason why the likes of Joel Netshitenzhe want Zuma gone – because they know of their own ‘smallernyana skeletons’? The rot is too thick, there is no honor amongst thieves, and the church is at the heart of it as the “Opiate of the Masses”.