By BO Staff Writer The white monopoly capital media has set the social media abuzz with reports of Gupta assets being frozen. This report has said that the Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU) has obtained a court order to freeze the Gupta family assets worth R1.6 billion. This is a blatant distortion of the truth to serve the agenda of white monopoly capital. The AFU obtained an order to freeze the assets of both McKinsey and Trillian pending an explanation by both companies of whether it’s respective assets were acquired legitimately. The two companies have ninty days to explain themselves. The white monopoly capital media has falsely reported that the assets affected are that of the Gupta family. There was even an hashtag on the subject, #GuptaAssets, which trended. Unfortunately the lie has been repeated by the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC). Its shocking that the South African media, including the SABC, doesn’t know that McKinsey is a global consulting firm which is not Gupta owned. Trillian too is not a Gupta owned company. The only link seems to be that the owners of Trillian maybe friends of the Guptas. This raises serious questions about what seems like deliberate distortion and misrepresentation of the facts, as well as sensationalizing the story, by invoking the name of the Guptas even when it doesn’t apply. The most eyebrow raising part of the AFU court application is that it seems largely irrelevant because McKinsey had, as early as October last year, offered to pay back the R1.1 billion emanating from the Eskom work not done. In fact, McKinsey says that it has been asking for action to be taken so that it can pay back the money. This piece of the puzzle makes an honest observer to ask the question, why the high handedness in pouncing on assets for monies already offered to be repaid? White monopoly capital media no longer hides its agenda against the Guptas. It has become so bad that even basic journalistic ethics are abandoned. Accuracy has been sacrificed for propaganda. The media is now the bulldog of white monopoly capital proper.