By BO Staff Writer Facebook (FB) has banned Andile Mngxitama, Black First Land First (BLF) President, yet again for calling out racism. It has been doing so consistently for the past 15 months for periods of 30 days consecutively with intervals of unbanning that constitute a few days at a time. Incidentally Mngxitama’s systematic banning coincides with the launch of the BLF campaign “Hands Off Zuma Economic Liberation Now!”. To this end the movement undertook to defend the sovereignty of the country and to advance the struggle for economic liberation in the context of a new global war, by the West in cahoots with white settler monopoly capital, to remove President Zuma from office and replace him with its favoured candidate Cyril Ramaphosa and thereby consolidate white imperialist power. The incidents of banning, which are too many to recount in detail, include those that relate to Mngxitama protesting against the Democratic Alliance (DA) for its “violent forced removals” of blacks from Orange farm and other areas; exposing Johann Rupert’s leading hand in regime change; supporting Professor Chris Malikane’s policy on Radical Economic Transformation (RET); exposing the role of AmaBhungane (Centre for Investigative Journalism), The Citizen and News24 in regime change; supporting Minister Mosebezi Zwane’s Mining Charter that gives 30% ownership of mines to blacks; pushing for Free Decolonized Education and supporting President Zuma’s call for “land expropriation without compensation”. The most recent incident of banning involves the following post where Mngxitama draws on Fanonian insights to call out racism:  The banning order which was issued read as follows:  This was against the backdrop of several pro RET posts by Mngxitama, including one with the following message: “Imagine us all telling the ANC it has to deliver what it promised. I believe the best way to push the RET agenda is to have a mass movement outside the ANC demanding RET implementation. The good comrades inside the ANC must not delude themselves. President Zuma is anti RET. Only mass pressure and political struggle will deliver RET. Those who oppose for narrow political benefits can continue to do. We must be focused on results. Part of putting pressure for RET is direct war with white monopoly capital (WMC) including undertaking land expropriation by the people (land occupations). If we pause now and allow the pro WMC forces to gather strength we shall see no land returned in our life time. 2018 is the year of implementing RET through land expropriation without compensation. New dynamics have been set forth. We have to be up to the task. The pro WMC ANC block is going to take over from the Red London block (EFF) in insulting us. We are for RET, are you?” BLF is reportedly organizing to mobilise against Facebook so as to send a clear message to Zuckerberg not to silence the voices of political leaders and other activists in a bid to promote regime change in South Africa – his racism will not be tolerated!