By BO Staff Writer “I’m on record for saying that “I’m upset they are upset,” in respect of the condemnation of my tweets by whites and especially by white Jewish people in South Africa. I have pointed out to them, “I want you to look at yourself”. However, the Jewish community in this country including the Applicant has reportedly been very bad at self-reflection” – Andile Mngxitama The Magistrate’s Court in Johannesburg has on the 4th of this month thrown the matter of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies (SAJBD) v Andile Mngxitama out of Court on the basis of a technicality – that it was not properly before the Court. The matter was apparently transferred from the Equality Court sitting in the Gauteng High Court to the Equality Court seated at the Magistrate’s Court in Johannesburg with the intention that it be dealt with by an alternative forum. The latter court has now pronounced that it is not an alternative forum. In September last year the SAJBD instituted a case against Black First Land First (BLF) President, Andile Mngxitama, in the Equality Court. The SAJBD alleged that the BLF President had tweeted certain tweets that were grossly insulting, racist, hurtful, malicious, and mocking of Jews over the murder of millions of them in the Holocaust. Moreover, the said tweets were alleged to have constituted the offences of hate speech and harassment. The SAJBD has asked the Court for an order against Mngxitama in the following terms: the imposition of a fine of R150 000; an apology; removal of the “offending” messages; and participation in an educational program at the Johannesburg Holocaust and Genocide Centre. Mngxitama, who opposed the SABJD application, has said that his first tweet, namely, “For those claiming the legacy of the holocaust is ONLY negative think about the lampshades and Jewish soap” is simply a political response to Zille’s first pro colonialism tweet being, “For those claiming legacy of colonialism was ONLY negative, think of our independent judiciary, transport infrastructure, piped water etc”. He elaborates, “I was merely paraphrasing Zille in my tweet”. Similarly, Mngxitama explains that his second tweet which says “I concure with @helenzille that the aroma of the burning flesh from the furnace of the holocaust may wet the appetite of the S.A. cannibals ” was in reply to Zille’s tweet on cannibalism. “My tweets have certainly exposed selective outrage on the part of whites which in turn dismisses the collective pain of blacks and gives recognition only to white suffering” said Mngxitama. He further accused the SAJBD of deliberately decontextualizing and misrepresenting his tweets. To this end he said: “I am the President of BLF, a radical black consciousness (BC) organization. My ideological perspective and political orientation is accordingly that of black consciousness which in turn makes no distinction between Germans and Jews. To this end BC sees no distinction between the various so called white tribes or ethnic groups just like how it makes no distinction between the various so called black tribes or ethnic groups. In all my political life I have accordingly resisted making this distinction. The accusation that I am guilty of the various constitutional and Equality Act infringements as indicated by the Applicant and Ms Kahn is baseless. It is, in the above context, abundantly clear that my tweets were aimed at exposing the badness of Helen Zille’s naked racism manifested in her utterances. What is also clear is my outrage against the glossing over or miniaturization by whites of the horrors of the black holocaust of colonialism in comparison with the white response to the Jewish holocaust. The various charges against me is suggestive of hypocrisy on the part of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies”. “Where is their (the Applicant’s) outrage against Zille? Where is their case against Zille in the court?”, he asks. Actually, “they have not sought to seek justice against Zille via the courts neither have they expressed any public moral outrage against her for her pro colonialism utterances”. Mngxitama regards the relief sought for him to be educated by the Johannesburg Holocaust and Genocide Centre as an assumption that he is ignorant. “This assumption is a function of racism and arrogance by people who are themselves ignorant. This call for me to be educated by Zionists is aimed at humiliating me and reproduces the violence of colonialism. The Applicant did not seek an audience with me. They did not seek a debate with me. Their response shows their deep seated belief, in line with the structural logic of racism, that blacks are cognitive cripples”, he said. It remains to be seen what the SAJBD will now do following the court’s dismissal of its case.