By BO Staff Writer The attempt by the pro white monopoly capital faction of the African National Congress (ANC) to remove President Zuma from office was defeated last night. During the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting this faction tried to force a discussion on the removal of Zuma as State President via a mischievous motion that was not on the agenda in the first place. Sources who were at the NEC meeting say that the motion was quickly and soundly defeated. The pro white monopoly capital faction was under the wrong impression that it has the upper hand. The defeat of this faction means that the State of the Nation Address (SONA) will be given by President Zuma. The sources further say that the pro white monopoly capital faction is under extreme pressure from its handlers like Johann Rupert and the Oppenheimer family to get rid of President Zuma who they see as the stumbling block towards white monopoly capital’s complete capture of the state and legalised looting through the privatisation of State Owned Entities (SOEs) like Eskom and the South African Airways (SAA). A second matter that makes white monopoly capital nervous is the Judicial Commission of Inquiry (JOIC) on state capture. White monopoly capital wants Zuma gone before he announces the expanded terms of reference of the JCOI. Johann Rupert; Maria Ramos; Colin Coleman; the Oppenheimers; Stephen Koseff; Markus Jooste; Bobby Godsell; Ian Kirk; and Christo Wiese are amongst the white monopoly capital personalities who will certainly have a lot to answer to at the JCOI. Also the president of the ANC, Cyril Ramaphosa, is implicated in corruption, money laundering and tax evasion. These matters will come up at the JCOI. That the white monopoly capital faction was defeated, has angered its handlers. White monopoly capital media is inventing fake news to try to psychologically hype the nation about Zuma’s removal. White monopoly capital media hopes that this lie can help to shift the balance of forces towards the Johan Rupert faction. Truth is, Jacob Zuma goes nowhere! 