By Themba Nkosi To identify the enemy is to free the mind, this is according to African-American poet, Mari Evans. Allow me to execute this task of freeing your mind by identifying the enemy which stands in the way of Radical Economic Transformation (RET) and the economic freedom of black people in South Africa. This is, of course, White Monopoly Capital (WMC). We know ‘what’ WMC is, however most of us are yet to understand ‘who’ it is. The term “white monopoly capital” can, at times, seem broad and non-explanatory when it comes to knowing the faces behind this sinister capitalist beast that keeps us oppressed. It becomes much easier to grasp if names are attached to it. Luckily for us, WMC has made this task extremely easy. In 2003, a ‘non-profit’ organization named Business Unity South Africa (Busa) was formed. As an organization, it consists of 36 organisational members representing the following membership categories: unisectoral organisations, corporate representative organisations, chambers of commerce and industry and professional organisations. There is a closed group of 23 corporate members that constitutes a Board of Trustees (more on those later). I need not mention that all of these are primarily white-owned businesses that are represented by Busa. Now let’s name a few bodies that are represented in Busa that should concern anyone who fully grasps the enormity of the power that the white community wields over the economy of this country. Firstly, we have the Banking Association of South Africa (BASA), which controls the money supply into the economy. The Chamber of Mines of South Africa (COM) controls the mineral wealth of the country, while Agri SA Agricultural Business Chamber (Agbiz) is the body that represents the white farmers that are against the RET policy of expropriation of stolen land without compensation. There is the Fuel Retail Association (FRA), Casino Association of South Africa (CASA) and so many more. The list of members practically covers every sector of the economy. One could then question why and how I come to the conclusion that the companies represented by Busa cover the entire economy of the country. Would I then be saying that black people don’t participate in business in this country? Not exactly. At the time of its formation, Busa joined together with the former Business South Africa, that was a representative of established business organisations and organisations representing black business interests. This was till their divorce in 2013 and that led to the formation of the Black Business Council. There you have it, Busa is the primary representative of white business in South Africa as it is infamously known, White Monopoly Capital. So why should we care about a ‘non-profit’ organization (isn’t it ironic that this is an NPO that represents entities whose primary reason for existence is to make a profit at any cost)? Well this profit driven non-profit just happens to be the reason or the driving force behind the anti-democratic attempts at regime change that we have seen in the past couple of years. Remember the all-expenses paid march against President Jacob Zuma in April 2017? All Busa member companies motivated their employees to stay away from work and to go participate in a march against the head of state. Most importantly though, is the recent appointment of the Eskom Board that took place on the 20th of January 2018. One name that stands out of course is that of the chairperson of the board, Jabu Mabuza. He is primarily introduced as the Chairman of Telkom, although he is also the Chairman of Busa. This particular tag is mainly kept under reps, one only wonders why? Before I am accused of calling this seemingly accomplished black man a WMC stooge because of the position he holds, allow me to explain that this is based on the notion that history repeats itself. In April 2017, an interim board was nominated at the SABC. What soon followed was constant anti-black propaganda narratives. From then on, you would swear that the state broadcaster, SABC News, and the Johann Rupert-owned, eNCA, share the same editorial team. These days, the SABC repeats all the fake news narratives from the WMC print media. All of this because the chairperson of the interim board that was nominated at the time was the CEO of Busa, Khanyisile Kweyama. Her deputy was Mathatha Tsedu, former editor of fake news publishers, The Sunday Times and he has also served as the General Manager of News24. He is a perfect example of a Clever Black, a master at perpetuating white propaganda. A permanent SABC board was appointed in October 2017, the new chairperson is Bongumusa Makhathini, who is currently employed as the Director of Legal and external Affairs at British American Tobacco (a one-time Johann Rupert majority owned company), and a member of the board of Trustees at Busa. Back to Eskom, I foresee Jabu Mabuza working hard to please his masters and ensuring the continued grip on Eskom by WMC mines that have evergreen contracts – these will surely be extended. None of the action that he will take in the future to benefit WMC will be labelled ‘State Capture’ by the media. These mines will continue increasing the price of coal to milk Eskom and they will, in turn, shift this cost to the consumer and the poor will continue to suffer. Busa has a Board of Trustees and some of the names of the companies that are on this Board of Trustees are interesting to say the least. These include companies such as AngloGold Ashanti, which is headed by Sipho Pityana – and we all know how vocal he has been against the president. ABSA bank is also there. ABSA stole billions from the Reserve Bank and is still refusing to pay it back, teaching us that in South Africa, the Public Protector’s remedial actions are binding, only if your name is Jacob Zuma. We also have Rothschild as a Trustee, that infamous name that has been attached to countless conspiracy theories to such an extent that many people doubt if it even exists. Trevor Manuel is the head of Rothschild SA, and they recently placed two of their men in the South African Airways (SAA) board when it was nominated late last year, firstly a Rothschild family member Geoff Rothschild (former chair of the JSE) and Martin Kingston, CEO of NM Rothschild & Sons South Africa. Do you see what’s going on here? These people are being strategically placed on the boards of State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) to ensure that they are privatized in the near future. This will take away revenue from government and shift it to private hands, we’ve already seen this taking place with the recent announcement that the Gautrain is now privately owned by Murray and Roberts. To a brainwashed mind, President Jacob Zuma will only be seen as a villain, but to many who understand what’s really going on, we can see what he was fighting for and who he was fighting against. The struggle continues and it becomes much easier when you know who you are fighting against. The existence of Busa and similar bodies is one of the many reasons why RET needs to take place. We need to be unified as black people if we are ever going to see economic freedom in our lifetime.