By Sipho Ntombela Dear Mr President, Mr President, I write to you as a fellow citizen, student and activist of the #FeesMustFall (FMF) Movement. When the FMF Movement started in 2015, I was doing grade 12 at Wiggins Secondary. During my matric year I knew my parents could not afford to pay for my education. This made me attentive to the FMF Movement which opened my eyes as my situation was not unique – it was the situation of a whole generation of blacks who could not afford tertiary education. The narrative in the media behind student protests, at Institutions of Higher Learning, for free decolonized education was that “a bunch of students, who were unappreciative of the opportunity (of being at university) that their parents didn’t have, wanted everything for free”. In some instances students were referred to as “criminals” by key political figures. I held the view that such a narrative was wrong because students not being able to afford university fees is a societal problem faced by those who are part of the oppressed, landless, dispossessed, marginalized black majority of this country. Moreover, Steve Biko does teach us that what we are faced with is clearly a problem that we as blacks did not create. However, because it directly affects us, we certainly have a duty to resolve it. Mr President, when the campaign, #FeesMustFall, started students were told by the opposition political parties, civil society organizations and all those who were against your administration that the government has the money to fund “Free Education” but that it was you who did not want to declare it. They told us further that because you did not receive tertiary education, you were unable to understand the importance of this education. Mr President in the eyes of the protesting students – that I was a part of – you were viewed as the enemy who stood in our way of achieving “Free Decolonized Education”. In 2016, following pressure from the FMF Movement, you announced a 0% fee increment. This was a very progressive step on your part even though it was not completely answering our call for “Free Decolonized Education”. Later in that same year, you announced that every student who qualified for the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) will be funded for the following year. In 2017 you introduced the Government Subsidy Scheme ostensibly to enable the so-called black middle-class and all those who qualified for NSFAS to be admitted via registration to Institutions of Higher Learning before receiving the financial aid in question. Mr President this meant that every deserving student who qualified could enter any tertiary institution of higher learning and study. Mr President 2017 has been a long, tortuous, revolutionary year which marked the rise of a strong revolutionary strand in the African National Congress (ANC) advocating for Radical Economic Transformation (RET). RET as a policy has elements in it which includes Land Expropriation without Compensation; Nationalization of the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) and other strategic sectors of the economy; realization of the revised Mining Charter which declares, amongst other things, 30% of black ownership in the mining industry within 12 months; the realization of 90% local content by the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) and Free Education. Mr President it is in pursuance of RET that you recently declared “Free Education” after reshuffling the Minister of Education and rejecting the Fees Commission Report. The fact that certain policy decisions, that constitute the core elements of RET, were subsequently adopted by the 54th National Elective Conference of the ANC in December 2017 is a huge victory for the black majority. What is left is for these policies to be implemented. It must be stated, more specifically regarding the adoption of the policy on “Free Education” (albeit short of decolonized education), that the unwavering commitment of the FMF movement in this respect must be applauded. However Sir, the de-colonial aspect of struggle for real education must still be realized without delay. Mr President after this revolutionary stance on “Free Education” by the ruling party, evidently initiated from the Presidency by you and driven within ANC by Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, the public has been bombarded by a narrative promoting questions like, “where will the President find the money to fund and sustain free education?”. I must admit that I also asked myself the same question. I couldn’t help but wonder if your resolution was not just plain rhetoric as part of the campaign to garner support for Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma’s election to the position of ANC President. Mr President I am a member of the Black First Land First Student Movement (BLF-SM) Howard College Branch which supported and ran a campaign by its mother-body (BLF) called “#HandsOffZumaEconomicLiberationNow!”. Regarding this campaign, BLF had resolved that should you be paying lip service with your call for “Land Expropriation Without Compensation”, BLF would nonetheless further that call (which it would still do even if you are serious about implementation) by facilitating nationwide land occupations to realize land return without payment to the colonial land thieves. Mr President, when you promised blacks “Free Education”, you promised us something that the opposition parties, civil society organizations and many others said you could not even contemplate the significance of since you have no experience of “proper” education leave alone, tertiary education. They said that you are an “uneducated President”. But Mr President, you did indeed promise us what no other sitting post 1994 President of South Africa (all of them hold tertiary qualifications) had promised. Mr President your stance surely changed the perception hitherto held, by many active members and activists of the FMF Movement, that you did not want “Free Education”. You made a promise Mr President for which the FMF movement will hold you accountable, should you not deliver. We do understand the agenda of regime change agents to turn your promise into something absurd and unattainable on RET terms. To this end the revolutionary forces will undoubtedly play its part in exposing and dealing with this by any means necessary. Mr President it should be clear to all – FMF Movement and everyone else concerned – that should you be impeached following the call by opposition parties and other regime change agents, you can no longer fulfill the promise you made. It is not in the interests of white monopoly capital, who is the handler of regime change agents, for the people to benefit from “Free Education” and other elements of RET as it will end their reign of opulence via looting the wealth of our country and dehumanizing the beings of blacks with impunity. Should they be successful with impeachment, the victory correctly claimed by the FMF Movement of “Free Education” will be gone, just like that! So on your part Mr Zuma, you must do what only a person occupying your office can do from the point of view of government – realize what you have promised, deliver “Free Education” (off course you should deliver all RET policies adopted but this is not the point here). Mr President, you are only of use to us while you are still the President of South Africa (SA) so we implore you to utilize your position optimally to implement RET for the black majority. You see Mr President it is not in the interests of us who desire implementation of “Free Education” and by extension “Free Decolonised Education” and RET in its totality, that you be impeached. For this reason the FMF Movement is compelled to fight regime change agents hellbent on impeaching you so that we can realize “Free Education” via your presidency. Our suffering as blacks must end! No one should be allowed to impeach you while you still owe our people “Free Decolonized Education”. Mr President, a promise is a promise, deliver! Revolutionary regards
BLF-SM Howard College,
Projects and Campaigns Secretary: S. Ntombela