By BO Staff Writer This article was originally published on the Xesibe Holdings website. Southern View Finance (SVF) is a company incorporated and listed in Bermuda (for tax reasons in all likelihood), owned by entities connected to Christo Wiese. According to Viceroy Research (the anonymous group of analysts that blew the lid on the Steinhoff debacle), SVF, a Wiese-controlled company, provided consumer finance solutions to Pepkor companies. Operating under the name, ‘Capfin’, the firm lent to low income consumers, initially without the requirement to prove income, and with surging loan approvals from Pep’s footprint of just over 2000 stores and Ackermans’ 485 stores nationally. Until the South African National Credit Regulator (NCR) stepped in. The NCR suggested that, contrary to the National Credit Act, Capfin didn’t obtain or verify customer income information, to determine the ability to pay back the loans. What function did this serve? According to Viceroy Research, this served the purpose of increasing the top-line assets of Steinhoff (the loans would be an asset to Steinhoff and a ‘liability’ to the low income consumer), whilst ensuring that the downside risks (defaults, write-offs, impairments etc.) would not be visible on the Steinhoff balance sheet. How was this done? The business, as a predatory lender, was charging high fees and interest, while dumping the ‘defaults’ and non-performing loans on the balance sheet of its related party, Fulcrum Financial Services. In October 2015, after the settlement with the NCR, SVF sold its subsidiaries and loan claims to the Fulcrum (a subsidiary of Campion Capital, which is owned by Steinhoff associates and former Steinhoff CEO/CFO employee, Seigmar Schmidt). The transaction wasn’t in cash, but through the creation of a R4,6bn loan claim in favour of SVF Ltd. Put simply, SVF gave Fulcrum a ‘loan’ to buy its loan claims. Much like Jimmy Manyi and Lodidox’s vendor financed purchase of ANN7. SVF announced that it would distribute the ‘loan claim’ to its shareholder companies, many of which by then where run by Christo Wiese. The surprisingly ‘hidden’ feature of this transaction, was the ‘hand’ of Steinhoff, according to Viceroy Research; “…Steinhoff made considerable loans to Campion Capital, it is likely that the loan claims paid to Wiese were secured against Steinhoff funds” It becomes rather confusing at this point, however it is clear that Campion’s purchase of SVF through Fulcrum, was ‘financed’ through Steinhoff funds for the ‘benefit’ of Wiese and some of his holdings companies, as Viceroy Research observed; “…. through a series of Steinhoff-financed transactions, revenues and financial benefits were siphoned away from the Steinhoff entity toward Southern View Finance’s ultimate owners; companies heavily invested by Wiese…” Why would Steinhoff allow this? The simple answer is that, much of the loan book was non-performing, consisting of debt needing to be impaired or written off. Through a ‘corporate dialysis’ process, Steinhoff would then re-acquire the consumer finance business’ profitable segments without having the burden of having the unrecoverable loans and losses on its books. They would do this, with the blessing of the Competition Tribunal in October 2016, through Steinhoff subsidiary, Pepkor buying SVF’s South Africa operation, and a related debt collection entity, Van As Associates. Effectively, what this meant, was that Fulcrum (owned by Steinhoff subsidiary, Campion) would keep all the ‘losses and non-performing loans’ and absorb these, while Pepkor and Steinhoff ‘bought up’ the profitable segments (loan administration, call centre operation and debt collection) from a company they indirectly owned (remember that SVF is a Wiese controlled company providing services to Wiese owned Pepkor companies). These profitable ‘elements’ would then appear on their books and reinforce the ‘bullish’ narrative sold to investors. What would the outcome of such an exercise be? According to Viceroy, the outcome was a simple one; “….to remove the loss-making loan facilities from the Steinhoff entity while securing income for Steinhoff companies through purchases made with predatory consumer loans “ Simply put, Steinhoff wasn’t concerned about the exposure to a bad loan book that came with their practices (they could easily shift those to Campion), but they were concerned with the revenue that would accrue to them, from where those loan amounts were spent. Think of it, if one gets the loan at a retailer like PEP or Ackermans, where are they likely to spend the money? You guessed it; PEP or Ackermans. This is a typical example of how the South African experience of financialization, in this case through the extension of unsecured lending in retail, has had on not only the financial markets but the entire economy. UJ academic, Sam Ashman has argued that ‘financialization’ has reshaped the South African growth path by channeling investments in sectors with strong linkages with finance and consumption broadly. PEP and Ackermans aren’t banks, but through their unsecured lending mechanisms have created strong linkages between credit and the consumption of their own products. This is not unique, after all very few people buy clothing, airtime and cellphones (what PEP and Ackermans offer) on store credit or through immediate loans like Capfin. The Steinhoff episode in this case has provided us with multiple case studies on how sophisticated corporate ownership structures can be used to ‘round-trip’ non-recoverable debt, and paint a false, but positive image of a particular company, whilst overstating interest receivable from ‘fresh loans’. Secondly it has shown us how low income consumers can be the ‘guinea-pig’ for such experiments, in a case where the impulses of discount retailers meet those of an environment where increasingly all firms are ‘financial firms’ due to the credit they provide to encourage consumption. There are also other lessons to be learnt from this debacle, and we discuss these below What can we learn from this debacle? The first lesson, is that many post-Cold-War corporate strategies have involved a range of incestuous relationships between related entities, to avoid tax obligations, fool the markets, evade regulation and create significant pay-offs for managers, whose pay is linked to the performance of the share price. Secondly, Steinhoff in essence ran a sophisticated, multi-country Ponzi scheme, that was sustained by rapid raising of equity to offset the shopping expedition they undertook to buy firms that they would use (in some cases) to conceal a range of losses. This is no different to a MMM. The third lesson, is that in a financialized economy, company assessments based on paper values with no real connection to a firm’s operational health, incentivize firms to maximize shareholder value (in this case through ‘cooking the books’ and using low-income, credit active consumers as guinea pigs), in a manner that is anti-society The fourth Lesson, is that we need to eradicate the ‘old-boys clubs’, that the boards and committees of Steinhoff and Pepkor have become, as an urgent corporate governance intervention. Even Markus Jooste, while he was still at Steinhoff, spoke of the familiarity that the directors and the Board had, which limited scrutiny and accountability; “To be in a business where ten of the other execs are your best friends that is unique – then to have had the class of directors like Bruno Steinhoff, Jannie Mouton, Christo Wiese…Again, when I started my articles in 1982 the first office I walked into on my first day was owned by Christo Wiese.…” As the shock dies down, on the Steinhoff saga, in the above discussion one has tried to unpack how ‘accounting irregularities’ were in essence crafty manouevres to hide losses and inflate current and future earnings. Looking at the example of how Capfin features in the complicated puzzle, one hopes will bring the issue much closer to home Chwayita reached for her phone in response to the vibrations she felt inside her handbag. The text message she read indicated that her loan had been approved. Hers was one of the many loans approved; to be impaired. For every second loan approved at some point, one loan was written off by SVF/Capfin. Her very need for immediate cash, was a minute part in an unfolding drama, played out on multiple continents; ‘gaming’ the regulatory scaffolding that kept up the financial system. As regulators wake up to the reality of what has happened, one hopes the outcome for the Jooste-Wiese-Schmidt-Steinhoff cabal, will be as punitive as the impact on those whose credit records and futures, lie smothered in a ‘ladder’ of defaulters at the Credit Bureau. That’s just the optimism of the New Year, in the world we live in, the matrix of crime in instances like this, goes off, with a slap on the wrist and a curious corner in the archives. Jailtime is for those who stand in long queues behind people with S-curls to ask for loans, not for those who provide them.