By BO Staff Today, the former public protector of white people, Advocate Thuli Madonsela, started at the job Johann Rupert awarded her with for not investigating his heinous crimes against black people. Madonsela will take up a position as a chair in social justice at the University of Stellenbosch, where Rupert is a Chancellor. Republished below is the story we published at the time the announcement of her offer was made. The man known as the “Stellenbosch Mafia” and the second wealthiest man in South Africa, Johann Rupert has thanked Advocate Thuli Mandonsela with a cushy job at the University of Stellenbosch. Johann Rupert together with eight others are being investigated by the HAWKS for corruption related to state capture claims. According to Black First Land First (BLF), Rupert and others in December 2015 coerced the ANC into appointing Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Finance. Thuli Mandonsela has been accused of protecting Johann Rupert during her tenure. Johann Rupert is the Chancellor of the University of Stellenbosch (SU) where he holds massive influence over the institution. Sources say that everything he wants, he gets. Advocate Thuli Mandonsela has been “head-hunted” by the university and has accepted a lucrative offer of chair in social justice at the Law School which she will effectively perform after a period of sabbatical leave. Sources believe that the job was offered as a “thank you” by Rupert to Madonsela. The former Public Protector has refused to investigate the R26 billion stolen from the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) by, amongst others, Johann Rupert and his father, Anton Rupert. Madonsela has dragged her feet for five years on doing her report on the stolen R26 billion despite compelling evidence presented to her that was adduced by the government commissioned investigation “CIEX” as well as by two credible commissions of inquiry. Furthermore, Madonsela has refused to include Johann Rupert and others in her investigation of state capture as requested by BLF. Sources also say that Madonsela is not likely to stay long in that position in SU since the Democratic Alliance (DA) has earmarked her as one of its Presidential Candidates for the 2019 general election. The position at SU is seen as a “cooling” post before she throws herself into the politics of the DA full on. Johann Rupert is known to be generous to those who are part of his faction which has captured the South African state. Thuli Madonsela and Pravin Gordhan are counted amongst his most trusted lieutenants. True to form, now Rupert has blessed Madonsela with a lekker job at SU. Some Blessers do deliver, and Rupert is one of them.