By BO Staff Writer Former public protector, Advocate Thuli Madonsela, has explicitly come out to say that she does not want the inclusion of white monopoly capital in the investigation of state capture. Madonsela was reacting to the announcement of the establishment of a Judicial Commission of Inquiry (JCOI) into state capture by President Jacob Zuma. Advocate Madonsela said the commission must only focus on President Zuma, the Guptas and Zuma’s son, Duduzane Zuma. Madonsela said, “There is nothing under the sun stopping president Zuma or any president from initiating twenty judicial inquiries into state capture by white monopoly capital. But this one is specifically about the Gupta family, the president and his son.” This blatant defence of white monopoly capital by Madonsela has become her trademark. Many of her critics have pointed out that under Madonsela, the office of the public protector became the protector of white monopoly capital. In particular, Advocate Madonsela seems worried that the expansion of the terms of reference to include corruption by white monopoly capital will directly implicate the likes of Johann Rupert. It is a known fact that Rupert, as chancellor of the University of Stellenbosch, created a special post for Madonsela in the university’s Law faculty. Many have said the plumb job was offered as a ‘thank you’ by Rupert for Madonsela’s service as the protector of white capital when she was Public Protector. It remains to be seen if the Democratic Alliance (DA) and other pro-white monopoly capital parties will not use Madonsela to try to limit the terms of reference of the commission in order to protect white monopoly capital from being investigated. It is known that President Zuma wants the terms of reference of the commission to include all corruption but Madonsela is afraid that such expanded terms will expose the corruption of white monopoly capital and in particular Johann Rupert. “The commission must seek to uncover not just the conduct of some, but of all those who may have rendered our state or parts thereof vulnerable to control by forces other than the Public for which government is elected. There should be no area of corruption and culprit that should be spared the extent of this commission of inquiry,” President Zuma said in a statement.