By Ncedisa Mpemnyama Seeing that it’s Januworry, my days of being a Slay King of some sort are gone, if they were ever there in the first place. The forced December nonchalant floating about has subsided and one is forced to go back to the grueling cycle of blackness. Anyways, so I’m at the Esplanade train station waiting for a train in that unending s’yali. Someone taps me on the shoulder asks me where I’m going. I answer, “eBellville grootman.” He offers assistance. “Hayi maan mfethu, iitrain eziya eBellville azihambi kuleline today. [No man, trains are not operating on the Bellville line today.]” He gestures towards the Century City line and proceeds to clumsily buy a cigarette from the Mama whose earlier conversation I had eavesdropped on. She was speaking to another mother, who is also a hawker at the station, about the conudrum of loving an unemployment man. “Hayi wethu kodwa siyabathanda noba banjalo abantu bethu. [But we love them irregardless.]” They both eventually agree on this before laughing serenely in the way only happy women can. They laugh as if to discipline themselves for allowing their humour to transgress societal norms for a “behaved woman.” I later find out that the name of the brother who had assisted me with the train is Lufefe. He stays in Leiden, Delft, in those annoying Shangan circles that never end. We talk and he tells me he lost his job in November when he was in the process of laybying clothes for his kids for Christmas. This, he relayed with so much sadness. “Heh bra, as I’m talking to you grootman, ndisuka eSARS and bayandisokolisa. Also ingathi ayifiki nalechweba yeUIF at least indiphe is’qabu [I’m coming from the SARS office and they are giving me a hard time. Also, my UIF money is taking forever to clear, so that I can catch a break.]” He tells me his wife of more than 5 years has decided to go home temporarily owing to the rigours zendlala. I look at him and struggle to find the right words to say to him to comfort him. Before I do, he supplements the pain with another story of how his cousin brother, whom he got work for, now drinks his money and does indumba and lollies. He says to me, “heh bra uyigrootman, utya idrugs nalamakhaladi asengingqini angenafocus, ithini ingqondo yakho as a man? [Brother, you are a man, tell me how do you use drugs with those unfocused Coloured people from our location? What does your conscious tell you as a man?]”. He then sighs and gives in to despondency. After a silence as longs as Mandela’s sentence es’qithini he says, “anyway ezintwana ubudoda bazo buyasolisa. [Anyways, the manhood of these boys is suspect.]” We get a moment of brotherly humour and we laugh. He tells me he has been looking for a job since being retrenched and has been using the train without paying for a ticket, dodging gatyi’s daily. In no time the train arrives. We get into a carriage full of men with defeated faces and a security lady who takes no nonsense. She keeps on barking instructions on how to seat properly in a train and many other banal everyday conversations. She brings a mellifluous, albeit harsh, energy to the carriage. I finally introduce myself in a Xhosa ‘manly’ fashion – as expected of you when you have been to the mountain. He introduces himself as well. He’s a good looking chap. I don’t know why but his face reminds me of a young Freddie Gwala. We apparently have the same clan name, on the mothers side. He says he got drawn to me. “Maybe ngamagazi tata”, he says. I tell Lufefe, “ungaworry ifrow izotrerha akhostory. [Don’t worry, your wife will come back.]” “Hayi ndigrand [I’m ok].” he says. Lufefe claims his wife is a principled woman. We discuss unemployment and marriage and how we black men have a raw deal in society. He takes me out of Bellville in a seamless way and we part ways. As I leave, he calls out, “Enkosi Madiba. Enkosi Zondwa.” As I accepted his thanks, I almost cried, but then I remembered I’m at the Bellville taxi rank. Ndingafa ngalamanene who drive these taxis. I hope Lufefe gets a job and his kids and wife return to him. I’m also hoping for a day where I can cry etaxi rank and be comfortable and not be embarrassed and reproached mercilessly. Iyeza loomini.