By BO Staff Writer Today, 24 January 2018, Black First Land First (BLF) warned that unless President Zuma complies with its demand to extend the terms of reference (TOR) of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry (JCOI) into State Capture to “include all corruption”, it will have no other alternative but to approach the High Court for the necessary relief. “We asked that the JCOI – already requested by us on 31 March 2016 for state capture by white capital – be extended to allow for all complaints on state capture including on the Guptas, the Ruperts and the banks”, BLF painstakingly pointed out. The revolutionary black consciousness movement catalogued in the letter of demand all the requests it had made for a JCOI on state capture since its birth on 13 August 2015, including on: – concessions granted to applicants in respect of the 2010 Voluntary Disclosure Programme, “which amounted to a further amnesty to businesses engaged in capital flight and other economic crimes”;
– Exchange Control and Tax Amnesty given to applicants in terms ofthe Exchange Control Amnesty and Amendment of Taxation Laws  Act, 2003;
– all aspects relating to the BLF “Preliminary report on apartheid era corruption and other economic crimes” dated 29 September 2015;
– the involvement of Johann Rupert and eight others in state capture;
– the tenure of Coleman Andrews at the South African Airways as Chief Executive Officer;
– theft of R26 billion from the South African Reserve Bank by Johann Rupert, Absa & 15 others;
– Pravin Gordhan’s criminal conduct and relationship with white monopoly capital and his fitness to hold any public office;
– 17 banks that were found guilty by the Competition Commission of collusion;
– the CIEX findings and recommendations;
– disappearance of R4.3 billion under the watch of former Ministers of Finance, Pravin Gordon and Nhlanhla Nene in Treasury;
– Steinhoff corruption saga involving over R12 billion;
– lifeboats given to white agriculture during the period 1992 to 1994 under the pretext of “drought relief”;
– lifeboats given to “The Citizen” relating to the Information Scandal of the 1970s; – high treason and regime change by Magda Wierzycka and three others; and
– scope of Judicial Commission of Inquiry on state capture to be extended to include all corruption. In a statement issued earlier today BLF spokesperson Lindsay Maasdorp said: “BLF shall leave no stone unturned in the quest to fight corruption at its roots. We repeat, investigate all, from the Ruperts to the Guptas. Corruption is corruption and it’s all bad”. Black Opinion is now publishing below the full letter of demand sent by BLF to President Jacob Zuma – which was copied to the Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkwebane: The Presidency
President Jacob Zuma
Union Buildings
Government Avenue
Pretoria CC: The Public Protector
Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane
Hillcrest Office Park
175 Lunnon Street
Pretoria
0001 24 January 2018 Email: Bongani0205@gmail.com
CC: malebo@presidency.gov.za
CC: salvationm@pprotect.org
CC: oupas@pprotect.org Dear President Zuma WE DEMAND A JUDICIAL COMMISSION OF INQUIRY ON ALL CORRUPTION NOW! The African National Congress (ANC) took a resolution in May 2017 in favour of a Judicial Commission of Inquiry (JCOI) on state capture that goes beyond the allegations of state capture by the Guptas. To this end the ANC requested that the terms of reference must include an inquiry into state capture by both the Guptas and white monopoly capital. This was a clear commitment to ending all corruption, in kilter with its undertaking on realizing Radical Economic Transformation (RET) subsequently adopted at its 54th National Conference in December 2017. Black First Land First (BLF) applauded the ANC for this bold move. On its part on 10 December 2016, BLF had already called for the limited scope of the JCOI on state capture to be extended. We asked that the JCOI – already requested by it on 31 March 2016 for state capture by white capital – to be extended to allow for all complaints on state capture including on the Guptas, the Ruperts and the banks. To this end the following chronology of requests for a JCOI on state capture by BLF since its inception on 13 August 2015 is instructive to the broadened terms of reference of the said commission instituted by President Zuma: 1. 19 September 2015: Request for information from National Treasury involving state capture – unresolved BLF wrote to the National Treasury and requested certain crucial information regarding the Exchange Control and Tax Amnesty afforded to applicants in terms of the Exchange Control Amnesty and Amendment of Taxation Laws Act, 2003. In this context BLF requested Treasury to supply us with the following information: 1. A comprehensive list of all applicants (disclosing full particulars of person(s) and entities) who applied for Tax amnesty is required. 2. How much of the illegally obtained “foreign assets” including profits were disclosed per applicant? 3. How much of those declared assets were expatriated to SA in total and per applicant? What rate of levy did each of these applicants pay? Also what was the actual amount each applicant falling in this category paid in terms of the amnesty levy? 4. How much of the illegally obtained “foreign assets” continued to be held offshore in total and per applicant? What rate of amnesty levy did each of these applicants pay? Also what was the actual amount that each applicant falling in this category paid in terms of the amnesty levy? Also, full disclosure was requested regarding what happened to those who did not disclose foreign earned profits and financial assets illegally obtained. To this end we asked: Did any investigation follow? If yes full disclosure of the outcomes and details thereof must be submitted? If treasury has done nothing, it must in that event explain clearly why it did nothing. Numerous attempts to obtain answers to and resolution of the above issues and questions were in vain. BLF accordingly requests that the scope of the JCOI announced by the President includes an inquiry into whether the amnesty awarded to the above applicants is part of state capture – we (BLF) believe that it is so. 2. 24 September 2015: Request for information from South African Reserve Bank involving state capture – unresolved BLF wrote to the Governor of the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) and requested the following critical information regarding the concessions given to applicants in terms of the 2010 Voluntary Disclosure Programme (VDP) – which amounted to a further amnesty to businesses engaged in capital flight and other economic crimes. 1. What estimate did SARB make of how much revenue was going to be generated by the VDP in terms of the new legislation? 2. What proportion of the estimated revenue did it predict as illegal flows? 3. What amount of money has been shifted from the country illegally/undeclared? 4. What mechanisms are in place to enquire into illegal capital flight in relation to which the above legislation applies? 5. How many criminal prosecutions and or other legal proceedings have been instituted against the wrongdoers / defaulters and what was the outcome of each case? 6. What are the consequences for those who did not take advantage of the VDP in terms of the new legislation? 7. How many applications were received in terms of the above legislation? 8. How much was declared as illegal capital flight by each applicant? 9. How much was declared as illegal capital flight in total? 10. How much was collected in terms of the flat charge of 10 per cent of the market value of the assets (for individuals and companies who disclosed their illegal expatriation of capital prior to 28 February 2010): a. per applicant? b. in total? Here too, numerous attempts to obtain a resolution of the above issues and questions were in vain. We therefore request that the scope of the JCOI into state capture includes an inquiry into whether the concessions given to the applicants in terms of the 2010 VDP who had engaged in capital flight and other economic crimes amounts to state capture – BLF believes that this amounts to state capture. 3. 29 September 2015: BLF released its preliminary report on white corruption BLF has conducted its own “Preliminary report on apartheid era corruption and other economic crimes” which it released on 29 September 2015. This report can be accessed from this link. The main findings of the BLF Report include: – The report found that a total of R563 Billion was stolen by white capital and can be recovered!
– That the main culprits are apartheid leaders (including cabinet ministers) who acted in cahoots with sections of white business.
– Apartheid leaders used the Reserve Bank as their own stokvel to loot!
– In 2007, 20% of the GDP was stolen through capital flight (under president Mbeki, who today leads the AU mission against capital flight, this is a contradiction!).
– 20% of the GDP in 2007 translates to R422 Billion stolen in one year! No one has been held liable!
– 6 billion was declared by companies as illegally taken out of the country in 2003! They only paid a R2 billion fine.
– Post-1994 government has on two occasions given amnesty to white capital for theft of billions (2003 and 2010)
– R50 billion was identified by the Competition Commission to be illegally gained in respect of which fines totalling 5 billion was paid
– R26 billion was stolen from the Reserve Bank. Despite at least three investigations that indicated wrong doing and possibility of recovery of the money, nothing has been done including by the public protector (four years later!)
– The CIEX report saga! Why did Thabo Mbeki put the report under the table?
(See link) The President is requested to include in the JCOI on state capture, all the aspects on white corruption indicated in the above findings of the BLF report. 4. 31 March 2016: BLF requested for JCOI into State Capture by white capital On 31 March 2016 the President was called upon to institute a Judicial Commission of Enquiry into SA “state capture” by white capital. To this end the involvement of the following people both personally and in their stated capacities was asked to be inquired into: 1. SA Businessman and Chairman of Richemont , Johann Rupert
2. Barclays Africa Group Chief Executive Officer, Maria Ramos;
3. Goldman Sachs’ South Africa head Colin Coleman;
4. Investec Bank’s global CEO, Stephen Koseff;
5. Imperial Holdings’ CEO, Mark Lamberti;
6. Sanlam CEO Ian Kirk;
7. Business Leadership South Africa chairperson Bobby Godsell;
8. Toyota Europe CEO Johan van Zyl
9. First Rand CEO Johan Burger
(Hereinafter referred to as Johann Rupert and eight others) Attention was brought to the under-mentioned areas of enquiry regarding the involvement of Johann Rupert and eight others in respect of: 1. The subversion of the Constitution as well as all the Arms of State including the Legislature in terms of which the President is accountable to – through the people.
2. Illegal usurpation of the constitutional and other legal powers of the President.
3. The firing of Des Van Rooyen and the hiring of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Finance.
4. The details (including the agenda, input, discussions, decisions, instructions and mandates) of the meeting called by Johann Rupert held on 10 December 2015 between Johann Rupert and certain business barons (including bankers) on the one hand with Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa on the other hand.
5. The details (including the agenda, input, discussions, decisions, instructions and mandates) of the meeting held on 13 December 2015 (coordinated by Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and ANC Secretary General Gwede Mantashe) between the white business delegation on the one hand with the ANC delegation on the other hand.
6. The details of the meeting held on 13 December 2015 between two ANC representatives from the earlier meeting the same day, being Zwele Mkhize and Jeff Radebe and President Zuma after which DesVan Rooyen was removed from the post of Finance Minister and Pravin Gordhan’s appointment as Finance Minister was announced.
7. The firing of DesVan Rooyen from the post of Finance Minister and the hiring of Pravin Gordhan in the same post. In support of the above call for a JCOI, BLF submitted a statement by its President Andile Mngxitama. The Office of the President was requested to respond to this call as a matter of top priority. We ask that the JCOI on state capture inquires into the involvement of the above people in state capture. 5. 31 March 2016: complaint lodged with Office of the Public Protector (OPP) on state capture BLF lodged a complaint with the former PP regarding state capture by white capital involving the following people both personally and in their stated capacities: 1. SA Businessman and Chairman of Richemont , Johann Rupert
2. Barclays Africa Group Chief Executive Officer, Maria Ramos;
3. Goldman Sachs’ South Africa head Colin Coleman;
4. Investec Bank’s global CEO, Stephen Koseff;
5. Imperial Holdings’ CEO, Mark Lamberti;
6. Sanlam CEO, Ian Kirk;
7. Business Leadership South Africa chairperson, Bobby Godsell;
8. Toyota Europe CEO, Johan van Zyl
9. First Rand CEO, Johan Burger The founding statement of the National Convener of Black First Land First, Andile Mngxitama, which was submitted to the OPP and to the SAPS (charges mentioned below) in support of the said charges and complaint can be accessed from this link. 6. 25 September 2016: call for Judicial Commission of Inquiry regarding Coleman Andrews President Zuma was asked to institute a JCOI into the tenure of Coleman Andrews at the South African Airways (SAA) as Chief Executive Officer. The matters required to be probed by the JCOI include the following: – Was the appointment of Coleman Andrews, who is a United States of America national, as CEO of SAA regular? – South African Airways (SAA) paid out more than R1-billion under the leadership of Coleman Andrews without making a single cent in sustainable profits. Which companies benefited from the budget spend during the relevant period and under what circumstances? Were the relevant legal provisions and policies followed in procuring those services? – Under what circumstances was Coleman Andrews allowed to take more than R220-million during his 20-month stay at SAA? Who approved of the deal and was it in line with South African law? – Coleman Andrews sold the aircraft of SAA and then leased back the very same aircraft to the SAA through foreign owned companies. Was the sale of the aircraft regular? If not, why was it allowed? Furthermore, who approved the process providing for firstly the sale of the aircraft by SAA and secondly for the sold aircraft to be leased back to the SAA? – According to Public Enterprises Minister Jeff Radebe, the former Transnet Managing Director, Saki Macozoma, did not have the authority to conclude an employment contract on behalf of SAA with Coleman Andrews. The commission is required to probe the role played by Mr Macozoma in the appointment of Coleman Andrews as CEO of SAA. – At the relevant time when Andre Viljoen was SAA chief executive and Saki Macozoma was Transnet head, a maintenance contract was concluded between the SAA and a company registered in Cameroon called Advance Technics Trust (ATT) in terms of which ATT was to be paid commission. In this context what happened to the related investigation which found evidence of bribery and corruption regarding the “commission” paid by SAA (which was then a subsidiary of Transnet) to ATT which caused the SAA to stop the ATT deal? – Consultants Bain & Company had been the largest recipient of consultancy payments from SAA, totaling R208.9 million. Coleman Andrews earned R232.2 million during his two-and-a-half years as CEO of SAA. The commission is required to probe the possible conflict of interest and corruption regarding the employment of the services of Bain & Company because Andrews was a founding member of Bain Capital, a fact that was not disclosed to the board at the time of his appointment. – The commission is also required to look into the expatriates employed at the time of Coleman Andrews as CEO and whether their employment and remuneration was in line with South African Law. In this regard the commission must probe the claim that, “(t)he majority of appointments of consultants did not comply with company tender procedures, and Andrews had agreed to pay performance-related fees to the consultants despite the fact that there were no performance measures in place”. – The commission needs to investigate the basis of declaring a profit in the financial year 1999/2000 when in fact SAA had lost assets through what appears to be an irregular sale of SAA aircraft. BLF asks that the JCOI on state capture inquires into the matters raised above relating to Coleman Andrews. 7. 27 October 2016: High Court application against Pravin Gordhan (Gauteng Provincial Division, case number: 83550/16) BLF lodged an High Court application to declare Pravin Gordhan conflicted, compromised and captured by white monopoly capital as Minister of Finance in that he has shares in the various businesses including banks that have been responsible for firing Des van Rooyen and hiring him as Minister of Finance. Gordhan filed and served an opposing affidavit to which BLF filed and served a replying affidavit. An article which was written by BLF President Andile Mngxitama was published in the independent news source, the Black Opinion (BO) website, on 27 March 2017. It elaborates on 30 reasons why Pravin Gordhan must be fired as Minister of Finance. Gordhan was subsequently removed from his post by President Jacob Zuma on 30 March 2017 – three days after this article appeared on BO. (See link) It must also be stated that on 23 January 2017 BLF wrote to President Jacob Zuma and requested that he fire Gordhan as Minister of Finance. To this end sound evidence was provided. The mentioned article is most significant as a reminder of why Gordhan had to be removed from office. It is also particularly important in the light of the dismissal with costs on 18 August 2017 of the application brought by Gordhan in the High Court Gauteng Provincial Division under case number 80978/16 for an order that he is “not by law empowered or obliged to intervene in the relationship” between the four major banks and Oakbay regarding the closure of the Oakbay bank accounts. The High Court’s decision, delivered by the Deputy Judge President Aubrey Ledwaba, has vindicated BLF’s position that Gordhan is compromised, conflicted, captured and beholden to white monopoly capital. He was appointed by white monopoly capital as Minister of Finance and the High Court’s dismissal of the relief he sought is proof of this without any doubt. We ask that the JCOI on state capture inquire into Gordhan’s conduct as indicated above as well as his fitness to hold any public office. 8. 16 November 2016: criminal charges instituted against Johann Rupert &16 others for theft of R26 billion (Jhb Central ref nr CAS 870/11/2016) BLF opened a case with the SAPS against Johann Rupert and 16 others for the theft of R26 billion from SARB. Capt H.J. Ngobeni is the investigating officer. BLF has also requested that the case be looked into by the HAWKS. To this end BLF is proceeding with the following against the perpetrators: – Criminal charges including that of fraud, embezzlement, corruption, offences relating to insider trading and breaching the Company’s Act;
– Criminal or Civil Court order for a declaration of unfitness regarding some of the perpetrators to serve as Director or Manager of any banking or financial institution
– Recovery of money to the extent that the perpetrators had benefited from the illegal lifeboat subventions; and
– Reparations arising from the commission of criminal anti people offences by the perpetrators (that of fraud, embezzlement, corruption, breach of the Company’s Act and offences relating to insider trading). The following is a list of the perpetrators implicated in the theft of the R26 billion from SARB: 1. ARMSCOR
2. SANLAM AND REMBRANDT
3. Aero-spatiale/Daimler-Chrysler
4. ABSA.
5. Minister of Finance, Barend Du Plessis, (who was in office as Minister of Finance from 1984–1992).
6. Attie Du Plessis.
7. Christian Lodewyk Stals (SARB Governor from 8 August 1989 to 7 August 1999)
8. Marinus Daling (Deputy Chair of Sanlam Limited from 1993 and later from 1997 Chair of Sanlam Limited).
9. Danie Cronje (Deputy Chief Executive and Group Chief Executive of ABSA from 1987 to 1997).
10. Anton Rupert (founder and owner of Rembrandt).Anton Rupert passed away on 18 January 2006. Legal recourse must be sought against his estate, alternatively the beneficiaries of his estate.
11. Johan Rupert (Vice Chair of Rembrandt Group from 1989 to 2000.
12. James Havelock Cross (Deputy Governor of SARB from 1997 to 1999 and Senior Deputy Governor since 1999).
13. Thabo Mbeki (Deputy President of RSA from 1994 to 1999, and; President from1999 to 2008).
14. Dullah Omar (Minister of Justice from 10 May 1994 to 14 June 1999. Died on 13 March 2004)
15. Trevor Manuel (Minister of Finance from 4 April 1996 to 10 May 2009)
16. Alexander Erwin (Minister of Trade and Industry from 1996 to 2004)
17. Tito Mboweni (Minister of Labour from 1994 to 1998) To this end on 19 June 2017 the Public Protector Advocate Busisiwr Mkhwabane,found inter alia that Bankorp Limited/ABSA Bank was liable in the amount of R1.125 billion. Aspects for consideration by the JCOI on state capture are addressed elsewhere in this document more especially under the JCOI on the Ciex recommendations. 9. 25 November 2016: request to President Zuma and SAA Board to stop illegal instruction of Pravin Gordhan On 29 November 2016 BLF held a picket at the SAA Head Quarters to protest the illegal conduct of Minister Pravin Gordhan who had signed a deal with Bain & Co (a business owned by Coleman Andrews) to privatise 25% of the SAA and to this end had directed the Board to effect his decision. In this regard BLF has written an urgent letter to the Board and to the State President asking them to halt the illegal instruction from Gordhan. The conduct of Gordhan in this regard must be probed by the JCOI on state capture. 10. 10 December 2016: call for scope of Judicial Commission of Inquiry on state capture to be extended BLF called for Judicial Commissions of Inquiry into the conduct of the Ruperts, Guptas and Banks. To this end BLF requested the scope of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry, already requested on 31 March 2016 for state capture by white capital involving Johann Rupert and 8 others, to be extended to allow for all complaints on state capture including by the Guptas. It was requested that the terms of reference regarding the inquiry into the banks should include probing the alleged collusion of banks in the closure of the Oakbay bank accounts; any corrupt activities as alleged in the media and by political parties around the illicit movement of money by Oakbay; and bank practices around racist differential treatment of clients. To this end BLF conducted a march to the Union Buildings on 10 December 2016 where a memorandum on the subject, which can be accessed via this link, was read and delivered. 11. 23 January 2017: call on President Zuma to fire the Minister of Finance President Zuma was called upon to fire the Minister of Finance, Pravin Gordhan, because he is compromised, conflicted and captured by white monopoly capital. To this end the President was supplied with ample evidence as to why our country cannot afford to have a Minister of Finance who is beholden to white monopoly capital. Right now the country is fighting for economic liberation via the destruction of white supremacy and to this end needs a Minister who will respond to the real needs of blacks which in turn requires that capital be disciplinedl. It was pointed out that Pravin Gordhan is pro-rich and pro-white and that he is accordingly not a fit and proper person to be holding the position of Minister of Finance. Gordhan was removed as Minister of Finance on 31 March 2017. Aspects for consideration herein by the JCOI on state capture are dealt with elsewhere in this document. 12. 17 February 2017: call for Judicial Commission of Inquiry on Banks to be instituted without delay BLF called for a JCOI on the banks to include the following17 banks that were found guilty on 15 February 2017 by the Competition Commission of collusion: 1. ABSA Bank Limited (ABSA)
2. Standard Bank of South Africa Ltd
3. Investec Ltd
4. Barclays Capital Inc,
5.Barclays Bank plc
6. BNP Paribas
7. Standard New York Securities Inc
8. HSBC Bank Plc
9. Standard Chartered Bank
10. Credit Suisse Group
11. Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited
12. Commerzbank AG
13. Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited
14. Nomura International Plc
15. Macquarie Bank Limited
16. JP Morgan Chase & Co
17. JP Morgan Chase Bank NAMELY We pointed out that the ruling of the Competition Commission confirms BLFs conclusion that the white owned banks are essentially common criminal organizations which are law unto themselves and protected by SARB and the Minister of Finance, Pravin Gordhan. To this end BLF is vindicated yet again. BLF also called on the President to nationalize the South African Reserve Bank and in this regard indicated that it is the only way to ensure that the South African economy can be protected. Also BLF welcomed the suggested “administrative penalty equal to 10%” of the implicated banks’ annual turnovers. However we believe this is too lenient and asked that the penalty be increased by the Competition Commission to 100% of the turnover of the guilty banks for each year of transgression. It was also recommend that 50% of the penalties received from the guilty banks be allocated for free quality decolonized education and for creating employment for the black youth. Furthermore on 29 July 2017 BLF laid criminal charges against the above banks (case number: 916/07/2017) at the Hillbrow Police Station in Johannesburg against 18 banks for their illegal activities including fraud, money laundering, theft, corruption and collusion. The statement of BLF President Andile Mngxitama which was used in support of the charges can be accessed from this link. The above statement is also submitted in support of the allegations against the banks which amounts to conduct that should be inquired into by the JCOI into state capture 13. 28 February 2017: Judicial Commission of Inquiry on the CIEX recommendations On 28 February 2016, BLF made submissions to the Public Protector (PP) Advocate Mkhwebane on the Ciex report which in turn shows that an amount in excess of R26 billion was unlawfully taken from the SARB during the last decade of the apartheid rule. The entities that were identified in the report as having unlawfully benefitted from the said R26 billion include: Aerospatiale/Daimler-Chrysler; Absa; Rembrandt (now Remgro); Sanlam; and Armscor. The investigation during the tenure of the previous Public Protector, Advocate Thuli Madonsela, focused only on the unlawful benefit accrued to ABSA and not on the entire R26 Billion. In this regard BLF called inter alia for the PP to facilitate the institution a JCOI on the CIEX Recommendations We believe that such a JCOI shall clarify how the full R26 billion was unlawfully taken from the SARB. Thabo Mbeki who was Deputy President of SA from 1994 to 1999, and; President from 1999 to 2008 did nothing to facilitate the recovery of the monies stolen and the prosecution of the wrongdoers when the CIEX findings were reported to him (as Deputy President) and certain cabinet ministers (including the then Finance Minister Trevor Manuel and former Labour Minister Tito Mboweni) on 29 November 1997 and on 8 January 1998. Furthermore successive Ministers of Finance since the Ciex recommendations came to light have been in dereliction of their duties and by omission or commission have protected unlawful activities by the implicated entities. BLF pointed out that the then Minister of Finance Mr Pravin Gordhan has shares in some of the entities which are alleged to have stolen from the SARB. Moreover, the attitude of SARB has raised serious questions about its own role in the cover up of the theft of billions from the public. As pointed out to Advocate Mkhwebane, BLF believes that there is no reason at all to doubt the authenticity of CIEX as a report that is a product of a legitimate state contract with other parties. CIEX was commissioned and paid for by the post 1994 government. It is therefore a product of the people of South Africa and its recommendations warrant serious consideration. The President is called upon to include the Ciex recommendations as one of the areas to be inquired into. 14. On 16 June 2017, BLF laid criminal charge(s) against the former Ministers of Finance, Pravin Gordhan and Nhlanhla Nene On 16 June 2017, criminal charges were preferred against the former Ministers of Finance, Pravin Gordhan and Nhlanhla Nene at the Hillbrow Police Station. The reference number is, CAS 492/6/2017. The cases involves R4.3 billion which was mismanaged under the watch of Gordhan and Nene in Treasury during their respective tenures and which was in service of state capture via the said Treasury by white monopoly capital. This aspect of state capture must also be inquired into by the JCOI. The affidavit in support of theses charges is attached hereto to support the allegations of state capture as well. The charges against Gordhan (who is currently a member of Parliament) and Nene (who is resident Advisor at Thebe Investment Corporation) relate to each of them covering up and or being complicit in the offences and irregularities – committed by their respective Deputy Ministers of Finance, Director Generals, Executive Officers, Audit Committees, departmental officials working within the National Treasury who are working with or within the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) project, Accounting Officers, Project Management Office, Procurement Department and Chief Financial Officer in the National Treasury – as indicated in the leaked Internal Audit Report. These offences and irregularities include: a. Failure to report irregular, wastefull, fruitless, and unauthorized expenditure as legislated in the Public Finance Management Act No 1 of 1999 as amended (PFMA)
b. Failure to safeguard public funds,and state assets
c. Financial misconduct with regards to the following: i. Contravention of section 86 (1) PFMA for willful or gross negligence on the part of an accounting officer, in that s/he failed to comply with a provision of section 38, 39 or 40.
ii. Contravention of section 86 (2) PFMA for willful or gross negligence on the part of an accounting authority in that s/he failed to comply with a provision of section 50, 51 or 55; and
iii. Contravention of section 86 (3) PFMA for unauthorized loans or entering into a binding financial contract without permission on behalf of a department, public entity or constitutional institution. d. Failure to perform fiduciary duties as vested in terms of the PFMA and other applicable legislation
e. Failure to comply with the Procurement Act
f. Dereliction of duties
g. Willfully allowing fraudulent activities and transactions to be conducted within the National Treasury
h. Participating and benefitting in fraudulent accounting,and financial transactions
i. Irregular expenditure
j. Unauthorised transactions and expenditure
k. Fruitless expenditure
l. Wasteful expenditure
m. Fraud and corruption
n. Looting State coffers
o. Failure to take appropriate action against officials and companies engaged/involved in conducting fraudulent activities, financial mismanagement, corruption, illegal siphoning of funds as highlighted in the IFMS Internal Audit Report.
p. Failure to disclose irregularities and Financial Misconduct within the National Treasury Department.
q. Gross violation of the PFMA with specific emphasis to sections dealing with: i. Procurement and provisioning
ii. Internal controls
iii. Safeguarding of assets and liabilities of the State
iv. Good governance
v. Financial management
vi.. Financial reporting
vii.. Financial planning, financial accounting, r. Irregularly awarding contract to work friends, business associates, relatives without following proper tender procedures
s. Failure to disclose gross financial misconduct to the Auditor General, Parliamentary Committee, Parliament – as prescribed in the IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) and required by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) which the PFMA and Treasury Regulations have prescribed to be an accounting Standard that in turn must be followed by National Treasury as a Government Department and an Accounting Institution.
t. Covering up the financial misconduct, fraud,corruption and all other irregularities as cited on the Internal Audit Report.
u. Contravention of Section 34 of the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act, 2004 (Act No. 12 of 2004) regarding his failure to report criminal activity and irregularities that were reported to Treasury. 15. 14 December 2017: BLF opened criminal case against Markus Jooste for fraud, corruption, mismanagement of funds, money laundering, tax evasion, etc On 14 December 2017 BLF opened a criminal case against Markus Jooste, the former Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Steinhoff International for fraud, corruption, mismanagement of funds, money laundering, tax evasion etc. involving the loss of R12 billion. Moreover BLF requested that the South African Police Services (SAPS) investigate the criminal activities of the members of the Board of Directors of Steinhoff including the six chartered accountants – namely Marcus Jooste, Andries Benjamin , Deenadayalen Kona, Stefanes François Booysen, Class Edmund Daun, and Martinus Theunis Lategan. The affidavit in support of these charges is attached hereto to support the allegations of state capture as well. BLF has already sent a letter to the Minister of Finance, Malusi Gigaba, to amongst other things: 1. Probe probable contraventions of the provisions of finance regulations by the South African Revenue Services (SARS), PIC, auditors, chartered accountants and directors. 2. Report the auditing firm Deloitte to the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors (IRBA). 3. Report all the directors of the board to the Institute of Directors (IoD) with a view to having the directors declared unfit to be directors. 4. Make public all the beneficiaries of the PIC money including asset management companies and the extent of the exposure 5. Suspend Steinhoff’s entire Board of Directors, including its newly appointed interim executive chairperson Christo Wiese, and its executive advisor Pieter Erasmus. 6. Report the matter to the Financial Services Board (FSB) 7. Do all that is necessary to bring to book Pravin Gordhan and Mcebisi Jonas for their role in the loss of over R12 billion in pension benefits. BLF has further written to the Standing Commitee on Finance to convene an urgent hearing on the Steinhoff corruption saga involving over R12 billion. This Steinhoff saga is the biggest scandal of state capture of 2017 and to this end the President is called upon to include it as one of the areas to be inquired into. Further matters for the JCOI 16. “Lifeboats” given to white agriculture during the period 1992 to 1994 as “drought relief” BLF will be putting before the JCOI on state capture, evidence relating to
the “lifeboats” given to white agriculture during the period 1992 to 1994 as “drought relief”. The evidence will indicate inter alia that: 1. From 1992 to 1993, the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) gave white agriculture a so called “lifeboat” totalling R3.4 billion under the pretext of a state “drought relief programme”. 2. 70% or maybe even more of this “lifeboat” was utilized towards supporting “white fanners” 3. R640 million of the “lifeboat” was given to the cooperatives 4. An additional, R1.8 billion was given to white farmers Aspects for inquiry include: 1. the illegality of the “lifeboat” given by SARB to white agriculture in the period 1992 to 1993. 2. the identities of all entities who have benefitted from the “lifeboat”. 3. the extent to which each entity (not limited to those mentioned above) had benefited from the “lifeboat? 4. the extent of the constraints for the new democratic government regarding the loan obtained from the IMF to finance the “lifeboat” as well as the interest that was paid or is payable in respect thereof. 17. “Lifeboats” given to “The Citizen” relating to the Information Scandal of the 1970s BLF will also be submitting evidence to the JCOI on state capture relating to the “lifeboats” given to “The Citizen” relating to the Information Scandal (aka Muldergate) of the 1970s. Muldergate became a matter of public knowledge after the journalists, Mervyn Rees and Chris Day, reported the story in the Rand Daily Mail in 1977. It arose from government’s efforts to influence public opinion illegally (both nationally and internationally) at the cost of the state in favour of the apartheid era government. The concern of government at that time was that the English media locally was reporting news about South Africa that put it in a negative light. To this end the said government established its own propaganda machinery and processes to wage a propaganda war to buy and shape public opinion in its favour. The Citizen was accordingly established as the driving component of the said propaganda machinery and processes. Matters for inquiry will include: – the illegality of the “lifeboat” or “secret” state funds to conduct a propaganda war via the employment of inter alia The Citizen so as to buy and shape public opinion in favour of the apartheid government. . – the full identities and extent to which all entities have benefitted from the “lifeboats” – money laundered through the evasion of “foreign exchange regulations and using South Africa’s vast gold resources to deposit money in the secretive Swiss Bank accounts”. 18. High treason relating to Magda Wierzycka; Sygnia; Daily Maverick (DM); and Richard Poplak On 7 August 2018, BLF laid charges of High Treason against Magda Wierzycka – the richest woman in South Africa and the Chief Executive Officer at Sygnia Asset Management – Sygnia; Daily Maverick (DM); and Richard Poplak. The case, which was opened at Hilbrow Police Station, has been moved to the Sandton Police Station under the reference, 255/8/2017. This case relates to the bribe offered to President Zuma by Magda Wierzycka. President Zuma refused the state capture attempt by white monopoly capital to buy him with R2 billion. Now this money has been offered to certain Members of Parliament (MPs) to vote against President Zuma. In this context the Speaker of the National Assembly Baleka Mbete ruled that that a no confidence vote against President Zuma can proceed on 8 August 2017 via secret ballot. In support of the above charges BLF provided a sworn statement to the police showing inter alia how Wierzycka’s plans to use her wealth to topple the democratically elected President Zuma and replace him with her own stooge. The statement further shows how those who demanded a secret ballot are part of a conspiracy paid for by white monopoly capital and global forces of regime change. The “Statement of BLF President to SAPS on charges of High Treason against Magda Wierzycka and 3 others” which can be accessed via this link is most instructive. Although President Zuma survived the no confidence vote, BLF nonetheless calls for the the conduct of Wierzycka and the three others mentioned to be inquired by the JCOI on state capture. We notice attempts by regime change agents to limit the scope of the JCOI to that of corruption by the Guptas. It’s clear that those labeling the Guptas and, by extension, the President as corrupt are silent on white corruption We note that every time white corruption, including state capture by white monopoly capital, is pointed out the Gupta family or President Zuma are accused in return. This has evidently happened on each of the following instances being exposed: the R50 billion stolen by the construction cartel during the 2010 FIFA world cup and exposed by the Competition Commission; the R26 billion stolen from the South African Reserve Bank by, amongst others, Johann Rupert and ABSA Bank; the looting of South African Airways (SAA) by the likes of Coleman Andrews and his consulting firm Bain & Company; the Oppenheimer family operating a private airport inside a national key point and demanding that it be given rights to upgrade into an international private airport; the banks disappearing R500 billion in December 2015 from the JSE as part of the strategy of economic terrorism to pressurize President Zuma to appoint Pravin Gordhan; and the billions of rands that leave the shores of SA illegally as “illicit financial outflows” daily. In all of the above circumstances we say that should the terms of reference of the JCOI fail to include all aspects of state capture – including those canvassed above – we shall have no alternative but to approach the High Court for the appropriate relief. BLF further reserves the right to make further submissions and to provide further evidence regarding the full spectrum of the JCOI on state capture. Sincerely Andile Mngxitama
Black First Land First (BLF): President Contact details Black First Land First Email: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za President
Andile Mngxitama
Cell number: +27 82 678 3200 Deputy Secretary General
Tshidiso Tsimong
Cell number: 0796680351 