By BO Staff Writer “Mbuyiseni [Ndlozi] is proper trash”, read a tweet from the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) feminist, Simamkele Dlakavu. Sources inside the party say a leadership battle is ensuing between EFF leader, Julius Malema, and his deputy, Floyd Shivambu. It is said Dlakavu is fighting on Shivambu’s faction, against Malema. The anti-Ndlozi tweets from Dlakavu have been streaming in since last Friday. She had first tweeted a series of very negative tweets about the People’s Bae, as Ndlozi is sometimes called, and then later removed some of them. On Saturday afternoon she restarted the campaign on Twitter, this time more stridently calling Dr Ndlozi “proper trash”. Dlakavu made her name as one of the women who staged the silent protest against President Jacob Zuma in 2016. Her brand is feminism. Up to now, her feminist activism has been targeted at the EFF’s political opponents, whilst paying a complete blind eye to the virulent misogyny of her leaders inside her party. Insiders say that two factions are rapidly forming inside EFF, with the bone of contention being disputes over money received for the delivering of black votes to the racist party, Democratic Alliance (DA). Sources within the party say the election of Cyril Ramaphosa as president of the African National Congress (ANC) has deepened these divisions. Shivambu is alleged to be a Ramaphosa man. The Twitter attacks on Dr Ndlozi are said to be Shivambu testing the resolve of Malema and signalling that he is ready for the fight. It is unheard of in the EFF for a senior member to publicly attack a leader and no immediate action to follow. Neither Dr Ndlozi nor Malema have responded to the Dlakavu provocation. According to insiders, Malema is trying to do damage control over his authority in the party by firing the pro-Shivambu forces. The first regional leaders to be hit includes those of the powerful Vhembe district in Limpopo. This was Shivambu’s stronghold until recently, when Malema removed the likes of Thabelo Mukwevho and Rendani Munyai. The factional battle for the control of The EFF by its president and deputy will soon move from being fought indirectly to open warfare at the elective conference scheduled for later in the year. Dr Ndlozi is a staunch Malema man. Shivambu has Dlakavu. The Shivambu faction has fired the first shots. Only time will tell how the battle will be determined.