By Phapano Phasha Sizwe Nxasana, chaiperson of the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) and Ikusasa Student Financial Aid Programme (ISFAP), must go and explain to the banks and the private sector the billions they stand to loose with the advance of free education. When Dr Blade Nzimande appointed Nxasana in 2015, it was not a coincidence, nor was the intention to relieve parents who pay thousands every year on student loans. Remember, Nxasana is the banker who was responsible for the delisting and privatisation of Telkom on the London and New York Stock Exchange. The markets love him and he has a lot of experience in companies ranging from Absa, Unilever and his chairmanship at First Rand Bank, with other portfolios in various companies such as IMM, making him a darling of mainstream media. You would also know, Unilever and First Rand Bank are controlled and owned by the Ruperts via Remgro and Rand Merchant Bank. His tenure at ABSA is quite interesting because it links to the CIEX Report which was before 1994. When the likes of Telkom, Anglo American and Old Mutual delisted under the behest of Trevor Manual and Nxasana, this had dire consequences leading to the stock of South Africa’s Foreign Direct Investment(FDI) increasing by 247%. By the way dividends and income payments to the same FDI are the real cost of South Africa’s external indebtedness, as payment to these London listed entities has been the single largest contributing factor to the accumulation of our external debt (37% between 2004 – 2013) that has led to the downgrading of South Africa by Credit Ratings Agencies. Basically we had to borrow interbank loans and short-term foreign portfolio loans to fund the extraction of long term capital for white monopoly capital. How could Nzimande, who was at the forefront of the anti-privatisation movement during Thabo Mbeki’s era, appoint an executive who has been deliberately gatekeeping capital from the Black majority and using devious means to repossess houses and cars from the working class and the poor? Well rhetoric aside, the Ministry of Higher Education under Nzimande had already made various promises to Universities, (which deem themselves as private institutions even though they are subsidised by government, banks, loan sharks like Fundi – previously called Eduloan, and the likes of Shoprite (owned by Christo Weise) and McDonald’s (Shanduka)), that 2018 was not going to be different in relation to profit margins. Fundi loans will still have offices in university premises targeting government employed parents whose children do not qualify for NSFAS because their parents are ‘over paid’. Banks will still offer ridiculous ‘student loans’ which if not paid could lead to blacklisting. NSFAS will outsource some of its procurement to McDonald’s and Shoprite through student vouchers. Fundi Loans (Edu Loan) is still partly owned by Standard Bank. What is nauseating is that white monopoly capital changed Eduloan to a Zulu name ‘Fundi’, appointed a Black CEO and black executives, yet the board is still white. Ian Kitshoff, who happens to be the founder of Eduloan and a former banker, along with his son and other white board of directors still call the shots. These are people who stand to loose due to the announcement of free education because the profits they accumulate through the interest rates they charge will ultimately be no more. So, the appointments by Nzimande in Higher Education, including SETAs, where he employed friends and family members and aspirant capitalists, were to further commercialise education whilst excluding the Black majority from participating. In essence, when President Jacob Zuma instructed Nzimande to look for the money for free education, the president was fully aware what he was going against. What is regretful is that communists from the South African Communist Party (SACP) were the first ones to reject such a motion and instead went after the president’s head, whilst marching with ultra-Right organisation whose businesses were under threat. #HandsOffFreeEducation