By Khaya S Sithole Meet Benjamin la Grange. He is a nice guy at the best of times. When Benjamin was young he decided to be a Chartered Accountant (CA). Which is a wonderful thing for young men of privilege. So he went off to a Big 4 firm to do his articles (you can guess which one it is). Years later, decorated with a lot of experience, Benjamin joined part of the Steinhoff stable. And – because Benjamin is a CA who is good at what he does – he eventually became the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of Steinhoff. Which means that he was the primary custodian of all the numbers that Steinhoff presented to all of us. And then shit hit the fan. Markus Jooste – the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) – resigned over something referred to as ‘accounting irregularities’. But bizarrely, Benjamin didn’t resign as apparently he was innocent. In other words, the company had ‘accounting irregularities’ and its chief accountant didn’t know. (Don’t laugh). So he stayed on. Then Steinhoff hired the firm where Benjamin did his articles to investigate the matter – because that’s how this profession works. And that firm first looked at the 2017 financial statements – and stated that they are wrong and need to be restated. Then they looked at the 2016 financial statements – and discovered that these were also wrong. Then they looked at the 2015 financial statements – and discovered that these were also wrong. And then suddenly, Benjamin got fired/deployed/redeployed today. What does that mean? The 2014 numbers have also been fabricated. How do I know this? Well Benjamin was promoted to CFO in 2013. So it turns out he cannot pretend that he didn’t know what was going on. And if he does – it will say a lot about the calibre of the Boys Club called the CFO Forum. As I said earlier this year. Anyway – let’s make him trend. He has a nice face after all. For his truly outstanding perfomance in the 2016 financial year, Benjamin was paid R38.7 million. And in 2017, because he was even more brilliant – Steinhoff gave him a 30% increase so he earned R50.2 million. The company’s perfomance did not improve by 30% – so one can only wonder what he was being rewarded for. And he remains a CA. Just like Anoj Singh. And Markus Jooste. And James Aguma. And those rogues from KPMG. Popcorn anyone?