By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) condemns the betrayal of the landless by the African National Congress (ANC) and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), with the strongest possible terms. The two parties have connived to waste ten months instead of amending the constitution to ensure land expropriation without compensation. The ‘public participation’ process by the Constitutional Review Committee (CRC) was a deliberate time-wasting strategy because it is not a requirement for amending the constitution. The connivance between the two parties is a deliberate ploy to avoid amending the constitution while pretending to be committed to land expropriation without compensation. There will be no amendment of the constitution before the 2019 general election. The ANC and EFF will only expropriate the votes of the landless without compensation. BLF has warned that the two parties are not serious about land expropriation. They just use it to get votes. The ANC and EFF jointly have the required 2/3rds majority in the National Assembly (NA) to amend the constitution but have not done so. They have instead embarked on a deliberate time-wasting process. BLF calls on the people to demand land expropriation without compensation before 2019 elections failing which they must not vote for these two parties. BLF is finalizing a process of taking land from the land thieves by direct action. Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC)
9 December 2018 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za International Relations Secretary
Shantha Balakrishna
Cell number: +27 72 114 3670 Deputy President: Zanele Lwana
Cell: +27799867225 National Spokesperson: Lindsay Maasdorp
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Head of Media & Communications: Brian Tloubatla
Cell: +27 82 216 7664