By BO Staff Writer The following statement was first published in the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: The black majority desire black unity to advance the revolution to end suffering. The enemy is united but black people are divided. A new opportunity to work towards black unity has presented itself again as a consequence of the position the Black First Land First (BLF) has taken against the war talk of Johann Rupert. The responses from the leaders and progressive organizations to stand with BLF is an important step in the direction of unity. BLF acknowledges the revolutionary stance of the National Freedom Party (NFP), its solidarity message is unambiguous. We draw strength from such clarity and revolutionary stance. BLF knows it’s not alone as it faces the enemy of our people. In the NFP we have a family. BLF also acknowledges the stance taken by Economic Freedom Fighter (EFF) to defend the correct position taken by our movement against the shocking cowardice of the African National Conference (ANC) of Ramaphosa. The ANC under Ramaphosa is unashamed agents of White Monopoly Capital (WMC). The ANC chooses to stand with Johann Rupert as he calls for black-on-black violence. This shows that the ANC under Ramaphosa is an anti-black party that is a danger to black liberation. The ANC of Ramaphosa has chosen to isolate itself from black people. We can never defeat the enemy divided. The enemy has manipulated our differences for far too long. This has weakened black people. BLF calls for an all black political parties imbizo before the 2019 elections. Our hope is that all the progressive parties of black people would cut ties with white alliances and partnerships for real black unity for land and freedom. We hope as a first step all leaders must initiate their own peace talks. There is nothing stopping EFF leader, Julius Malema from approaching President Jacob Zuma to ask for forgiveness. The same applies between BLF President, Mngxitama and Malema. Surely the differences between these leaders are not more important than the liberation of our people. The enemy is united and determined. If blacks don’t unite and fight, we shall each be defeated and destroyed. Our unity now is a matter of life and death. BLF calls for a principled unity based on a minimum program of action which we consider to be the Radical Economic Transformation agenda. We hope all black parties would consider the call for an all black political parties imbizo before the 2019 elections. Unity doesn’t mean stopping the necessary critique of each other, it simply means working towards something much bigger and much more important. Viva black unity! Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee (BLF NCC) 13 December 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664 No related posts.