By BO Staff Writer The following letter was first published in the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Google which owns YouTube has removed a video titled ‘ #MngxitamaHomecoming rally!’ via the link, https://youtu.be/rdZd7U-ghPA This YouTube video contained a speech delivered by BLF President, Andile Mngxitama, at a homecoming rally in Tlokwe, Ikageng on on 8 December 2018 responding to, amongst other things, Johann Rupert’s incitement of black on black violence. Google has, by removing the video blocked a legitimate radical voice responding to the racism of Johann Rupert displayed during a Power FM interview which in turn is captured on YouTube in two parts namely: Power FM hosts Johann Rupert – https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=JXaTvI86BIs; and Power FM hosts Johann Rupert, Part 2 – https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=lnrK863tSRA . In the YouTube video footage Rupert is blatantly saying he has his own army and that the taxi associations are his business partners and therefore his private militia. He further intimates that anyone who affects his interests will be subjected to taxi owners violence. He is threatening to unleash black on black violence. When Mngxitama responds to Rupert’s threats of violence so as to stop a genocide on black people, YouTube removes his content that was uploaded on its site. Google via YouTube is thus promoting Rupert’s incitement of black on black violence via it site. We can see that Google is applying its rules in an uneven and unfair manner in terms of what content it should allow and what it should block on YouTube. Sundar Pichai of Google is the third tech CEO that has blocked the radical voice of BLF President Andile Mngxitama. This comes after the numerous suspensions and bannings imposed on him by Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg and Twitter’s Jack Dorsey. BLF will be conducting further oversight over how Google’s applies its rules on what content to allow or block. BLF demands that Google immediately uplifts the ban on the video ‘#MngxitamaHomecoming rally!’, failing which BLF shall not hesitate to engage in any means necessary to remedy the situation. Freedom of expression and self defence are fundamental rights. Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 15 December 2018 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Deputy President: Zanele Lwana
Cell: +27799867225 National Spokesperson: Lindsay Maasdorp
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Head of Media & Communications: Brian Tloubatla
Cell: +27 82 216 7664 No related posts.