By BO Staff Writer The following letter was first published in the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: I write to you as the President of Black First Land First (BLF) being a Black Consciousness, Pan Afrikanist movement which embraces the Sankarist leadership ethos. BLF is registered with the Independent Electoral Commission as a political party and it is situated at 0514 Klampton Towers, 5th floor, cnr of Commissioner & Von Wielligh Street, Johannesburg. BLF calls on the taxi associations to denounce the racist threats of Johann Rupert to unleash black on black violence via the taxi industry. We would be glad to meet with you in this respect. On 4 December this year, Johann Rupert announced during an interview with Power FM that he had a long-time friend in the taxi industry who is the chairman of the taxi association. In this respect Rupert stated as follows: “Jabu (Chairperson of Eskom, Jabu Mabuza) and I have one thing in common: He’s chairman of the (South African Black) Taxi Association and one of the first (partners) in Business Partners was the taxi association. So I also have my own army. When those red guys come, they’ve gonna have to remember the taxi association.” Rupert is blatantly saying he has his own army and that the taxi associations are his business partners and therefore his private militia. He further intimates that anyone who affects his interests will be subjected to taxi owners violence. He is threatening to unleash black on black violence. This raises the question, is the violence in the taxi industry sponsored by Johann Rupert spanning from the pre to the post apartheid era? Johann Rupert is BLF’s opponent. Its of public knowledge that he has ten interdicts to prevent us from expropriating his stolen land. What is next? Since BLF is affecting his interests, will he be unleashing his private militia on us? There’s been an outcry from the far right and racist pro white political parties and organizations who have condemned BLF’s response to Rupert’s incitement of black on black violence. Also there’s been a distortion of the context of the BLF President’s comments, including by the white owned media, regarding Rupert’s threats of violence. Ironically, these reactionary entities want BLF to be deregistered from the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) and its President to be prosecuted for incitement to violence. Freedom of expression and freedom of political party participation are fundamental rights! Our message to Rupert clearly suggests: Do not stand in front of a fast moving train. It’s going to kill you! It’s a warning! Don’t kill us or if you do we going to kill you! You kill one of us, we kill five of you. We have a right to defend ourselves. BLF implores the taxi owner industry to condemn Rupert’s racist threats inciting black on black violence. We urge you to send a strong signal to Rupert. Tell him, ‘We are not your militia. We are not your private army’. BLF is desirous of meeting with you urgently on this important issue. Kindly revert with a suitable date, time and venue. Our head office is available for this purpose. Yours sincerely Andile Mngxitama
Black First Land First (BLF): President
13 December 2019 Contact details Black First Land First Email: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za President
Andile Mngxitama
Cell number: +27 82 678 3200 Secretary General
Siphesihle Ayanda Jele
Cell number: 0728417579 No related posts.