By BO Staff Writer The following statement was first published in the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) is appalled by the African National Congress’ (ANC) continuous defence of racist land thieves. The ANC has in fact been relegated to small children by the WMC establishment. The ANC, has for 24 years failed black people. It is only President Jacob Zuma that started to lead the fight against White Monopoly Capital (WMC) and seek to implement Radical Economic Transformation (RET). WMC has bought the ANC conference, executed the coup to remove President Zuma, and has imposed their favourite house slave, Cyril Ramaphosa, as the President of Stellenbosch. It is for this reason that the ANC cries like a house slave who heard BLF speak back to their master, Johann Rupert. Under the leadership of Stellenbosch and imposed Cyril Ramaphosa, the ANC government has found new vigor to pander to racist land thieves like Rupert and defend the WMC establishment. It is clear who the real government is! Ramaphosa’s ANC government has done nothing to ensure that land thieves stop killing black people on farms. It had done nothing to ensure that there is justice for the people of Marikana who “President” Ramphosa slaughtered to protect WMC. Ramaphosa’s ANC has not implemented a single resolution taken by ANC branches, instead he has deceived black people. He has led the land expropriation deception which simply exists to expropriate the votes of the landless. BLF warns the landless, the defenders of the racist criminal that is Johann Rupert, will not take the land stolen by Rupert and return it to the landless. Don’t vote for Rupert’s ANC! Zizi kodwa must shut up! He is also imposed by WMC. The ANC must remember that during the 1980s, it is the same Rupert family and the same FW de Klerk that received a position under the ANC government, that orchestrated the massacres of black people. They planned and armed the IFP and ANC wars, while whites slept soundly. Today Kodwa, a WMC poodle, wants to defend Rupert who threatens to unleash his army from the taxi associations to deal with black people. BLF will not allow a repeat of the 1980s! BLF warns the ANC, we are committed to defending the landless, and your commitment to land thieves like Rupert will maintain you as an enemy of the people. Repent, turn your back on land thief Rupert and defend the landless! BLF calls on the oppressed to unite across political differences, intensify and get ready; we must take the land from those who killed Anele Ziko. Land or Death Mayibuye Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee (BLF NCC) 13 December 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664 No related posts.