By BO Staff Writer, The editor of the Sunday Independent, Steve Motale is a fired man. Sources have confirmed that Motale was to be fired on instruction of Cyril Ramaphosa. Motale’s only sin was to publish the multiple extra marital affairs of Ramaphosa. Furthermore, Motale is considered to be a hostile force because he publishes opinion pieces which are not flattering of white monopoly capital (WMC). The sources say the owner of the Sunday Independent, Dr Iqbal Survé, was given an ultimatum to either face the chop like the media channel ANN7 or get rid of Motale. Survé chose to offer Motale’s head to the Stellenbosch mafia and save himself. Ramaphosa also wants businessman Kenny Kunene to be dealt with. Kunene’s online publication had published more explicit video material exposing the perverse sexual fantasies of Ramaphosa. Ramaphosa has opened a case against Kunene with the police, alleging bridge of privacy with regard to the emails that Kunene’s publication has in possession. Kunene is said to be eagerly waiting for action from the police. He wants his day in court to further expose Ramaphosa’s shenanigans. Next in the great purge is the Secretary General of the African National Congress (ANC), Ace Magashula. Plans are at an advanced stage to remove Magashula from the position of SG because he is seen as someone who is too close to former President, Jacob Zuma. Also on the buffalo firing line is the premier of North West, Supra Mahumapelo. WMC wants Mahumapelo locked up and Ramaphosa has agreed. Malusi Gigaba will be removed after the budget speech despite singing for his supper. Once these are silenced then the big move will be to neutralise the Deputy President of the the ANC, D.D. Mabuza. The WMC plan to purge all leaders Stellenbosch doesn’t trust will ensure that the top ANC leaders completely abandon the agenda of Radical Economic Transformation (RET) after the 2019 elections. WMC does not want to see Mabuza, he is considered too compromised and too thugish. Naledi Pandor is the favourite candidate by Stellenbosch to be the deputy president of Ramaphosa. Her profile is being raised for that purpose. The purging of Gigaba and Mabuza will be welcomed by many as karma. The two are said to have betrayed Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma’s camp but that will not save them from the Stellenbosch guillotine. WMC wants total control of the ANC and have determined that a clean sweep purge is the best way to ensure a pliant ANC after the big scare of RET and possible NDZ presidency. In the coming weeks many heads will roll. Sources say Stellenbosch is impatient for changes to happen to secure its position within the ANC. The rhetoric of RET will be used to get votes in 2019 but the new deal will be the policy that’s implemented.