By Lindsay Maasdorp “Father, forgive them, for they no not what they do!” (Luke 23:34) These were the words Jesus Christ uttered as he hung on the cross and died. Perhaps President Jacob Zuma remembered these words, as the African National Congress National Executive Committee (ANC NEC) pronounced that he is to be recalled as the president of the Republic of South Africa. What we do know is that just as Jesus asked Peter if he truly loved him and then predicted Peter (the one who was willing to cut off an enemy soldiers ear) will deny him 3 times, so did President Zuma after making the tough decision to recall Nhlanhla Nene as Minister of Finance. He asked the nation if we would be ready to defend him when he would make much harder decisions. In no way would I try to liken Zuma to Jesus or Jesus to Zuma, but one cannot help but look on as these Christlike moments unfold and the biblical experiences characterise his presidency. Critical for all students of theology, we carefully note that God is in the habit of using pretty shitty people for his work. Think of Moses the murderer. David considered an adulterer. We can go on, the list is long. Saul a persecutor of the followers of Christ, had his Damascus moment and turned to Jesus, and renamed as Paul the apostle. Moses, an illiterate murderer, was asked to lead a nation out of landless enslavement into the promised land – the land that would flow with milk and honey. A journey that would normally take 11 days, took 40 years! The Israelites saw 10 miracles and thereafter they allowed an illiterate murderer to lift a stick to part a raging sea, this, so that they, the Israelites, could escape a powerful army. Yet still they doubted and questioned his leadership! Well, the murmuring Israelites wandered in the desert for 40 years begging to return to Egypt. Eventually they all died in the desert, only their children saw the promised land. I don’t know when, but President Zuma, like Saul, had his Damascus moment. Msholozi is like Moses and we are just like the Israelites – we consider these leaders as inept. President Zuma has championed an alternative to Western imperial control, breaking Western hegemony via BRICS. He has faced Johann Rupert, the head settler coloniser, front on. He protected SOEs by exposing the white monopolisation in procurement at South African Airways (SAA), 40 year long evergreen contracts by companies such as Glencor at Eskom. It is under his tenure as president, that more schools have been built than any other president. He is the only president to build two institutions of higher learning and he is the one who pronounced on free education. President Zuma has rocked white people who have captured the state including the economy, and it is under his leadership that the white monopolisation of the banking sector, as well as their theft/collusion and their pre-1994 crimes have come to the fore. But, just like the Israelites, after seeing the proof of a move from slavery, we are turning a 11 day journey to the promised land into 40 years. In more honesty, we are worse than the Israelites, just as we are ready to leave slavery, we have rebelled and demanded  to remain in bondage. Black people are the majority in South Africa, yet 35000 white families who have more than 80% of our land are keeping us in slavery! We have rejected our 21st century Moses who said, I am ready to lead you to own your land, that flows with gold and diamonds, because it rightfully belongs to you, the black majority! In three of the gospels you’ll read about religious leaders who turned a land space, namely, a temple, a place of worship, into a market. A den for thieves who exploited the poor. Jesus stepped in and whipped these fake moralist fools, sent these pseudo-religious leaders out, took that land and used it to heal the sick and blind. Was God not pleased that the place of worship was restored as a place of healing? Why does our land remain a place of colonial enslavement and oppression? President Zuma spoke of poverty, inequality and unemployment as the “children of land hunger”. He has consistently gone on to express that if we don’t answer the historical fact that black people were wrongfully dispossessed, we won’t be able to solve these problems – poverty, inequality and unemployement! The reality is we, like the Israelites, have been in the process of manamana, and President Zuma, like Moses the murderer, with all his imperfections, is Christlike. He has asked, how can the sick, the dying, the uneducated, the beggars, the downtrodden – how can we the black oppressed – be healed without the land? The Secretary General of the ANC, Ace Magashule, categorically stated as he addressed the nation post the ANC NEC marathon meeting, “[h]e (Zuma) did nothing wrong!” Magashule echoed Pontious Pilate who said to the nations that gathered to hear Jesus’ fate, “I find no fault with this man.” Despite it being a decision between Jesus and a thief named Barabbas, who John reminds us was guilty of an uprising to overthrow the rulers, the crowd shouted “Give us Barabbas!” Today in 2018, we the enslaved who will die in the desert, shout to the tune of our enslaver, Johann Rupert, “give us Ramaphosa”, the murderer of workers, and who, just like Barabbas, is an agent of regime change!