By BO Staff Writer Recently sworn-in president, Cyril Ramaphosa, is already hard at work in reversing the gains of former President Jacob Zuma’s radical policy implementations, including the revised Mining Charter. In a bid to appease his white friends in the mining sector (Ramaphosa is famous for his business interests in mining, specifically at Lonmin which is implicated in the deaths of 34 black miners), Ramaphosa is already in discussions with the pro-white industry body, the Chamber of Mines, to have the pro-black charter scrapped. “Following the State of the Nation Address (SONA) on Friday, 16 February 2018, the Presidency has been in discussion with the Chamber of Mines to resolve the impasse over the mining charter and to facilitate a process of developing a New Mining Charter that all stakeholders can support and defend,” the presidency said in a statement. The emphasis here is on “New Mining Charter”. The chamber of Mines (which represents the likes of Glencore and Anglo American) has vehemently opposed the charter – even approaching the High Court to have it set aside. The chamber makes the unfounded claims that the charter will be damaging to the industry and will create a mining crisis if implemented. Minister of Mineral Resources, Mosebenzi Zwane, is quoted as having said that those who oppose the charter, like the Chamber of Mines, “are in fact opposing the transformation objectives of government, and we stand ready to defend the interests of South Africans in this regard.” The pro-radical economic transformation Mining Charter calls for at least 30% black ownership in mines within 12 months. The charter also sets targets for companies to boost the number of black people in management and improve training and benefits for communities near mines. It prescribes for new mine licencing applicants to have 50% black ownership. The charter pushes for black female representation in boards. While former president, Jacob Zuma, considered the charter as progressive and necessary as part of reversing the historical mine ownership patterns which favour white bosses, Ramaphosa is instead looking to develop a “New Mining Charter” which “accelerates transformation and grows this vital sector of our economy”. Twenty-four hours before the Marikana massacre, Ramaphosa is on record as having called for “concomitant action” to be taken against striking mine workers in the mine in which he owned shares. He strongly condemned the protests, describing them as criminal acts. Thirty-four men were killed by police to protect the profits of the platinum mine. This brings in to question Ramaphosa’s quick meddling in the Mining Charter and his cordial relations with mining bosses. Will we see another massacre soon and continued exclusion of mining communities from multibillion rand profits made mines? The haste with which Ramaphosa has succumbed to the calls of white monopoly capital to have the charter scrapped are not surprising. Ramaphosa is a man of the markets proper. British imperialism pushed for the election of Ramaphosa at the ANC elective conference because it is Britain which owns and controls the mines and minerals of South Africa. Ramaphosa is working to consolidate the interests of white monopoly capital. It is well known that Ramaphosa is no threat against capital, but instead reinforces it.