By BO Staff Writer The leadership of the ruling African National Congress (ANC) has finally caved in to the demands of white monopoly capital and Western imperialism to recall President Jacob Zuma as the president of the republic. In a press briefing on Tuesday, the ANC Secretary General, Ace Magashule, said the ANC National Executive Committee (NEC) had not given Zuma a timeline to when he must resign. He said Zuma is expected to respond tomorrow to the NEC’s decision. “The ANC NEC decided as follows, one, to recall its deployee, President Jacob Zuma, in accordance with rule 12.2.21.2 of the ANC constitution which accords the NEC the authority to recall its deployees,” Magashule said. Magashule said Zuma had requested to stay in office for another 3 to 6 months due to his roles in the SADC and BRICS. The NEC is expected to meet with the ANC parliamentary caucus to discuss the recall and how the transition from a Zuma presidency (which was pro-poor) to a Cyril Ramaphosa presidency (who is a known white monopoly capital agent) would flow. Asked whether the move was to deligitimse Zuma’s call for land expropriation without compensation Magashule said that land expropriation without compensation was ANC policy and that all ANC deployees had to abide by it. From the press briefing, it is unclear when Ramaphosa will take the reigns as the president, who the deputy president will be once he takes over and how the ANC will vote in the upcoming vote of no confidence in parliament. There has been a clear and vicious push by white monopoly capital to have Zuma, like Brazil’s former president Dilma Rousseff, removed as the president. White capital has tried various measures to have Zuma removed, including organising many failed anti-Zuma marches, but they succeeded by influencing the ANC Elective Conference and electing Ramaphosa as the president of the party. Tomorrow chief whips and the ANC parliamentary caucus will meet to discuss how parliament, where Zuma can officially be removed as President, will deal with the ANC’s decision. The nation will eagerly await President Zuma’s response to the ANC’s decision tomorrow.