By BO Staff Writer The media in South Africa is firmly in the grip of white monopoly capital. A small group of white businessmen (including Koos Bekker and Johann Rupert) own major media stables which publish some of the most widely consumed publications, including the Sunday newspapers. Stories published in these newspapers are manufactured so that they never implicate white monopoly capital. Here we give you a shortlist of the news that won’t make the Sunday headlines: 1. Christo Wiese is a rhino poacher! A new international investigation has revealed a criminal ring involving the billionaire, Christo Wiese. The criminals are involved in a sophisticated scheme of poaching rhinos from the Kruger National Park under the pretext of “conservation”. Hundreds of rhinos were bought at next to nothing from the state, only to end up dead in the hands of Wiese and company. Millions of rands have been made through these illegal schemes. The silence of the usually loud civil society organizations is defeaning. There are no calls for parliament to probe and there are no bounties offered for the arrest of the criminals who are looting and destroying our biodiversity for profits. Wiese is a common criminal associated with lots of criminal activities including the Steinhoff saga. Not so long ago, he was caught with millions in cash at the Heathrow airport. Yet despite his proclivity to criminality, he remains a celebrated businessman in South Africa. His whiteness protects him from the media and other crusaders against corruption. 2. Eskom board acted unlawfully on instruction of Cyril Ramaphosa This week, the Labour Court ruled that the instruction of Cyril Ramaphosa to fire Eskom’s former head of generation, Matshela Koko, was unlawful. Ramaphosa, in a hurry to prove to white monopoly capital that its forty-year contracts are safe, instructed the board of Eskom to fire Koko. This was an “unlawful instruction” said the Labour Court. Media houses have played this down and pretend that Ramaphosa has not violated his oath of office even before he became president. There is no call for the CEO of Eskom to be fired and Ramaphosa to be disciplined despite this scathing court decision. The court has basically said Eskom has acted unlawfully in carrying out malicious mandates from Ramaphosa. Breaking the law to serve white monopoly capital is permitted in South Africa and the media systematically covers it up. 3. Oppenheimers have their own private international airport inside OR Tambo International In other shocking news, one of the wealthiest families in South Africa, the Oppenheimers, now have their own international airport inside the OR Tambo International airport. The Oppenheimers can now conduct their illegal business operations without hindrance. The Oppenheimers acquire a massive amount of wealth from trafficking illegal diamonds, gold, rhino horns and other contraband, across continents. Imagine this: an Oppenheimer private jet lands in a coltan rich Democratic Republic of Congo region where it off-loads guns in exchange for rare minerals. It flies to Europe and off-loads, then off to Colombia for drugs in exchange for guns picked up in Europe and then heads back to OR Tambo with guns and drugs. So the cycle continues with full protection from the state of Cyril Ramaphosa.