By BO Staff Writer The Black First Land First (BLF) has come out to condemn bribery by Cyril Ramaphosa supporters who violently beat up women protesters who were part of a #HandsOffZuma march at the African National Congress (ANC) headquarters, Luthuli House. The movement says the woman, Olivia Makete, whose picture of her being trampled by a Ramaphosa supporter, Thabang Setona, went viral on social media on Monday, is currently getting medical assistance. Read BLF’s full statement below: ANC wants to bribe BLF to not press charges against violent protesters Black First Land First (BLF) notes with disgust how Cyril Ramaphosa’s supporters are trying to bribe BLF members to not lay charges against the violent, vulgar, hypermasculine, patriarchal women assaulters who thumped a senior citizen yesterday, 05 February 2018 at the ANC headquarters, Luthuli House. Our office is not open for the business of bribery and corruption. When the CR17 supporters came, we had a choice to respond and defend ourselves, but we chose our principle in unity that says “Peace Amongst Blacks, War against the Enemy.” We must be mindful of the fact that the attack was based on our #HandsOffZuma picket to Luthuli House, where we delivered a memorandum of demands to the Secretary General of the ANC, Ace Magashule. The SG acted in an accommodating and cordial way. He decided to meet us even under difficult circumstances where these mercenaries of Ramaphosa were booing him. This also shows how Cyril Ramaphosa bribed his way through to becoming an ANC president at the ANC elective conference in December. Going forward, we have sent a letter to the secretary of the ANC Johannesburg regional office, Dada Morero, to further take action on those who were involved in the heinous crime and expose them. We are still to open a case with the South African Police Services. The BLF mother who was beaten up, Olivia Makete, along with other victims, are currently being medically examined. The possible crimen injuria case to be opened will be of assault, intimidation, harassment, and inducing fear and trauma. We also did our own investigations on the perpetrators and we discovered yet another person in the footage carrying a stick. His name is Nicholas Mthembu, who resides in Orange Farm. We also know that Thabang Setona has been released after he had handed himself over to the police, on the basis that there is no complainant. We must reiterate that our BLF mother, Makete, is not and will not be open to bribery. All we need is for her dignity to be restored and the Courts to decide what to do with those violent CR17 supporters. ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT (BLF NCC) 06 February 2018 Contact Details
Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
BLF Deputy President
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Deputy National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664