By Tebogo Brown “When a man is great, any death is untimely, even if he dies at the age of 102.” Today marks 40 years since the death of such a man, Mangaliso Robert Sobukwe. Poisoned to death, Sobukwe died at the tender age of 52. Though this year’s anniversary was quiet and uneventful, with little media coverage, I should applaud the North West based national radio station, Motsweding FM, for allocating some time on air to Sobukwe. Motsweding FM asked a few Africanists, myself included, to send WhatsApp voice notes of about 10 minutes summarising Sobukwe’s biography: How Can Man Die Better authored by Benjamin Pogrund. The voice notes were played live in a midday show, Bua Le Mmino, hosted by Benny Motaung and Lebo Leabile. This was a progressive move by Motsweding FM, but there is always room for improvement. Sobukwe’s ideas and teachings remain suppressed and I am also a victim of that unjust act. Twelve full years of my life in a government school and I never heard of his name, not even his organisation the Pan Africanist Congress of Azania (PAC), which was the first to have the pass laws temporarily suspended. The PAC was the first organisation to engage in an armed struggle. The first men in modern history to be imprisoned on Robben Island belonged to this organisation and went as far as outnumbering other political movements that came in later in the years. Jafta Kgalabi “Tiger of Azania” Masemola remains one of the political prisoners who served the longest time on Robben Island – he was assassinated 6 short months after his release. The day of the assassination was the only day in that 6 months he travelled without a bodyguard. Bullet cases were found in his car. The PAC, once united, must look into this case. About 100 members of the PAC’s military wing, Poqo, were hanged at Central Prison in Pretoria and four of the Poqo members from Munsieville boldly accepted the heavy sentence and went to the hang without uttering a word, while Solomon Mahlangu of the ANC’s Mkhonto weSizwe appealed twice without success (no attempt to downplay his contribution.) Two major historical events in Azania, Sharpville Day on 21 March and the June 16 Students Uprising bear the marks of Sobukwe’s ability to organise. Sobukwe fought tirelessly for Azania, his country of birth, and the great continent of Africa which was the every first to give the entire world a real taste of civilisation. The life and message of Sobukwe was hated by the demi-gods of white supremacy. The hatred went even beyond the walls of Azania to the corrupt offices of the Vatican. Hence on 27 February 1978, pay back time had arrived for this undisputed champion of African liberation. He was poisoned to death because they saw the threats he posed to white supremacy. Two things distinguish him from the many people of his time who are now forgotten. First, he had an inexhaustible faith that liberty and justice were worth fighting for and that they will ultimately prevail. Second, he continuously acted on that faith, in larger ways and in small ones too. I go down on my knees to beg production houses like Bomb Productions to contact Robert Sobukwe Foundation and see to it that they make a movie about the life and times of this great man. I also encourage parents to buy his biography, make copies of Sobukwe’s speeches and his 1970 interview, print them out and by all means keep them on a lower library shelf, within close reach of inquisitive children. Sobukwe’s rule has been submerged and distorted for decades. But it has not been totally eclipsed and his role now rises like a star which was hidden by a cloud but never faded into the oblivion of the night. Robala sentle segatlhamela masisi sa Azania.