By BO Staff Writer The red carpet was rolled out and politicians – who have become more like celebrities in South Africa – were dressed in expensive suits and designer dresses. The shoes were shiny and heels were as high as the sky. The city was closed down and as a metaphor to the exclusion of the hungry masses from the 400 or so parliamentarians, the wire fences enclosing parliament were high and guarded by hundreds of police officers. The newly elected president of the country, Cyril Ramaphosa opened his state of the nation address by welcoming all guests in the house – these included former president, Thabo Mbeki (known for his fidelity to neo-liberal policies) and former apartheid mass murderer, FW de Klerk, who received a resounding applause from the house. It was sad and ironic to see how an apartheid mass murderer received applause, whilst a black president championing radical economic transformation was booed by black parliamentarians. This clearly shows the power of whiteness on memory and forgetting. What did Milan Kundera say about memory and forgetting? “The struggle of man against power is the struggle of memory against forgetting.” The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), the third largest opposition party, had in the week, vowed that it would not take part in a parliament which it deemed, “illegitimate”. They said, “[t]he EFF notes the illigitimate election of Cyril Ramaphosa as President of the Republic of South Africa. We see it as an illigitimate move because parliament should cleanse itself of all the Constitutional Court rulings that have found it to be in violation of the constitution in that it failed to hold the executive accountable”. The party, seated and listening attentively, took part in the SONA and clapped when Ramaphosa entered the house. EFF leader, Julius Malema and Ramaphosa even exchange some cute and playful moments. This brings into question whether the party is truly committed to its ideals of standing for the poor and those black brothers who were massacred in Marikana. They clapped for, and sang for, the “Marikana murderer” The schizophrenic nature of a National Assembly that serves capitalism and white supremacy was highly apparent. Ramaphosa noted that there is a problem of poverty and inequality in the country but unlike his predecessor, Jacob Zuma, he failed to pin point the source of that – being the exploitative nature of capital and the deathly effects of white suprecamcy on black bodies. Ramaphosa focused a great majority of his speech on job creation and investment for the creation of “jobs”. One wonders where Ramaphosa has been over the past couple of years where young people, through the Rhodes Must Fall and Fees Must Fall movements, have said that they are not entirely interested in getting jobs and being part of the capitalist exploitative machinery, but want to meaningfully participate in the economy through ownership and economic emancipation. Ramaphosa mentioned the Mining Charter in passing, saying that he would continue engagements to “agree on a charter that both accelerates transformation and grows this vital sector”, meaning that he would cave on the demands of the business orientated Chamber of Mines, which has out-rightly rejected the community orientated Mining Charter which says that at least 30% of mines should be owned by mining communities. On the important issue of higher education, Ramaphosa passed the buck to the finance minister who he said would “clarify all of the aspects of the financing of the scheme during his budget speech next week.” The incoming president dedicated only one sentence in his speech to BRICS. For Zuma, on the other hand, BRICS was a vital part of moving away from the grip of the imperial influence of the West. All in all, Ramaphosa’s inaugural speech was pro-capitalist, pro-white monopoly capital and signaled a regressive move towards pro-market policies, as expected.