By BO Staff Writer A member of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), Temaswati Nqcobile Dlamini has appealed to the president of Black First Land First (BLF), Andile Mngxitama to explain the meaning of Land Expropriation Without Compensation. This follows the shocking call by the EFF that land in the hands of blacks, more specifically the Ingonyama Trust, must be expropriated. Mngxitama was the land commissar while he was still a Member of Parliament in the EFF, before his expulsion. He was the first to offer the African National Congress (ANC) the EFF’s 6% in order to amend the constitution to ensure land expropriation without compensation. While in parliament, Mngxitama was in constant clashes with the racist Freedom Front+, which he accused of being a party of land thieves. Recently, Mngxitama has said both former president, Kgalema Motlanthe and EFF leader, Julius Malema, need to be educated on the objectives of land expropriation without compensation. He said they don’t know that it’s about addressing land theft by whites. He accused both of being jealous of King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu and wanting to disposess him of land – thus misusing land expropriation without compensation. Temaswati Nqcobile Dlamini wrote: “This cardinal pillar number 1 will confuse us vele bcos the guy who put it in the organasation policy left us and left with all the information on what he meant when he said land must be expropriated without compesation. From who to benefit who? We were thinking he meant this land owned by white people must be taken back to the black people, it’s rightful owners. That why now we are very confused about the land owned by chiefs, king, abantwana (princes). Anibize uMgxithama tu azochacha lento yakhe isiyasehlula manje . The very same reason myself I can’t debate him in this issue bcos it’s his baby. Silamulele Andile what was the purpose. Umhlaba wamakhosi yes black people must be expropriated to benefit who? This white goverment or the black people who lives in it as we speak? Please Andile tog.”