By Skhumbuzo Mazibuko “A soldier without any political or ideological training is a potential criminal.” – Thomas Sankara In my capacity as the Black First Land First (BLF) Chairperson of Gauteng, I have had to directly and indirectly deal with Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina a couple of times. It’s a sad state of affairs in the so-called new democratic dispensation led by the African National Congress (ANC) of Ramaphosa and in this case, the ANC of Masina in Ekurhuleni. I can count numerous occasions when we, the people, have reached out for assistance. After four memorandums and letters, three meetings and four protests, we have zero results and a bunch of unfulfilled promises. The sad truth is that Masina, a bourgeoisie aspirant Mayor, has exploited the people of Ekurhuleni. For months, residents of Zonkizizwe, a township in the southern part of Ekurhuleni near Katlehong, have been voicing out their grievances through writing letters and protests and all they got was a violent attack from Metro police. A 17 year old young man was gunned down on Thursday, adding to the troubles of the community. The past three weeks have seen Metros being deployed to a section of Embileni to beat up BLF members and other community members because of a piece of land that had been said to be fit for occupation. After they had settled in the land, the MMC for human settlements, Lesiba Mpya, who had proclaimed on a community radio station that the land was fit for occupation; has changed his mind and it is now said that he wants to sell the land to a private buyer! Residents first occupied the land in Zonkizizwe on 16 June 2018. On 10 & 11 July, Mpya was on local radio station “Kasi FM” stating that the land was fit and proper for occupation. Fast forward to 19 July, the settlement was destroyed. In the chaos, the Metro police burned down shacks, and women and children were beaten to a pulp and left stranded.   BLF provincial and Ekurhuleni regional leadership have tried multiple times to engage with you, Mr Masina and your MMC, but this has been fruitless. The people are now “gatvol” and it’s time for action. Service delivery should not be negotiated Mr Masina! Community development should be at the forefront of the municipality’s list of priorities. Instead, we see ANC officials driving around in Vrrrr Phaaas! The continued corruption of the selling of vancant land is at a huge scale and sees companies like Cosmopolitan benefit at the suffering of black people. The ANC of Masina and Mpya is kissing white ass and will do everything to keep the white baas happy. A case of assault has been opened against the Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department (EMPD) and a letter sent to the Chief of police. The BLF provincial office will be making a follow up on the case and aims to hold the EMPD accountable for their actions. Like the holy fire of eShowe, Ekurhuleni shall burn to the ground and become ungovernable as the needs of the people are not met. Yours in Revolution Skhumbuzo Mazibuko
BLF Gauteng Chairperson