By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) is saddened by the news of the murder of a young woman, Zolile Khumalo, at the hands of her boyfriend. Zolile who was a student at Mangosuthu University of Technology (MUT) is 1 of 8 women who die at the instance of their spouses everyday. Statistics also reveal that annually in South Africa (SA) more than a thousand women are murdered by their partners and a million are raped in mainly townships that are already generally characterized by violence. We call for justice for Zolile Khumalo which in turn is part of the bigger struggle against gender based violence and to this end put appropriate mechanisms in place . BLF recognizes that black people continue to be systematically subjected to an endless cycle of violence and then imprisoned under the guise of justice for acts that are intensified and enabled by white supremacy. There is a deeper dynamic to the violence of black people – it is structurally enabled by white supremacy which in turn is based on the colonial theft of black lands. Hence black men are thrust into mimicking the violent tendencies of white supremacy. This however not only strengthens the hand of white supremacy and the continuous marginalization of black people – it makes total liberation of both black women and men an almost impossible task. To this end our fight is directed inwardly towards each other instead of focusing it on the enemy. We reiterate our call to the Minister of Women whose burden is a heavy one indeed- take the resolution of the question of gender based violence seriously. After-all there can be no real black liberation without the liberation of black women. Since plans to develop a national strategy to eradicate gender based violence has been suspended by government which in turn has also halted the National Council on Gender Based Violence from doing its work, the Ministry on Women has not indicated the way forward. We cannot allow this situation to continue unaddressed. Government via the Ministry of Women must develop and implement a meaningful plan which includes decolonised gender education from pre-school to tertiary level of education that is anti-sexist, anti-patriarchal and by extension anti white supremacist. This gender education should further speak to outlawing all practices that are oppressive to black women. We urge the Ministry of Women to intensify it’s reach in black communities – it’s the right thing to do. BLF is appalled by the prevalence of gender-based violence. We call on government to hold a national summit on gender based violence in the next 3 months failing which BLF will take further action. The statistics indicate that we are in a state of emergency which requires immediate action. The only reason there’s no concern in this regard is because this affects black and not white women. We stands for radical economic transformation (RET) regarding policy development and implementation with clear targets towards realizing the objective of eradicating gender based violence. To end gender-based violence that is rooted in dispossession, there is no solution beyond decolonization and no justice without reparations centered on land return. BLF will write to the Ministry of Women again, to seek a meeting towards further engagement and action in this regard. We shall not rest until we get real justice for black women like Zolile Khumalo. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 4 May 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Thabi Myeni
(Secretary of Gender and Sexuality)
Cell:+27765323903 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664 