By BO Staff Writer The first episode of the weekly social media show, “Mngxitama on Sunday Live”, made major sensational claims. The show is hosted by Andile Mngxitama who is the President of Black First Land First (BLF). During the show Mngxitama alleged that Lord Robin Renwick was in South Africa (SA) recently on a mission to unite Julius Malema and Cyril Ramaphosa. Mngxitama pointed out the revelations in Renwick’s book and interviews that he had tamed Malema just like he had done with Nelson Mandela. Renwick clearly indicates that he basically got the concession from the leaders of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) that they were not committed to the policy of nationalisation of the economy. This claim by Robin Renwick, who is a known imperialist and trusted agent of the Queen of England, is damaging to the credentials of the EFF as a radical movement. “Nationalisation of Mines, banks, and other strategic sectors of the economy, without compensation”, is the second cardinal pillar of the EFF. Renwick now says that this pillar was sold out in London. The second claim made by Mngxitama during the show is that Renwick, by his own admission, met the EFF in London at Malema’s request. Malema, on the other hand, has told Onkgopotse JJ Tabane on PowerFm that he didn’t know who Renwick was, despite having met him under the secret Chatham House Rule. Mngxitama further alleged that the EFF has not issued a statement, not even a tweet, denouncing Renwick as a liar because it is scared of the Lord who is their handler. We are accordingly left with the version of Renwick as true in the absence of the EFF’s denial thereof. Mngxitama said that the real reason Renwick was in SA recently was to fulfill the mission of getting Julius Malema to bow down to Cyril Ramaphosa. According to Mngxitama, white monopoly capital (WMC) and western imperialism are worried that Ramaphosa is weak and may not go beyond being President of SA for more than one term. However, if Malema was to team up with Ramaphosa, this duo can then defeat the Radical Economic Transformation (RET) forces inside the African National Congress (ANC), Mngxitama added. Renwick is apparently the mastermind behind Malema using radical rhetoric so as to ensure right wing results. This will suit the strategy of destroying the RET agenda and its implementation through radical rhetoric without any action. A Ramaphosa and Malema partnership can achieve these results for imperialism and WMC. To this end, Mngxitama pointed out, Malema has already written a letter to Ramaphosa seeking an official meeting. The reinstatement of the corruption and fraud charges against Malema is intended to blackmail him into becoming a servant of Ramaphosa, said Mngxitama. This, he stressed, is part of Renwick’s plan to speed things up. It remains to be seen whether the EFF will pluck up enough courage and contradict its handler, Robin Renwick. In this context the question raised is, will the EFF deny that a letter has been sent to the ANC asking for a meeting with Ramaphosa? 