By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued on Black Opinion: On this second anniversary of our revolutionary movement we commit ourselves to deepening the fight against land thieves and white supremacy. Black First Land First (BLF) will not celebrate any achievement until the land is in the hands of its rightful owners. Today we renew our commitment to defend and advance the Radical Economic Transformation (RET) agenda as was conceived by President Zuma. Black people need a minimum program to unite them all, irrespective of political party affiliation. That program is RET. Amongst the key pillars of RET, which must be supported by all, are the following: 1. Land expropriation without compensation
2. Nationalisation of the South African Reserve Bank
3. Setting up a State Bank
4. The revised Mining Charter
5. Free quality decolonized education
7. Reparations for Marikana
8. Living minimum wage of R12 500 BLF, following Steve Biko, has learned in its short existance that “the most potent weapon in the hands of the oppressor is the mind of the oppressed”. It is for this reason that BLF has in the past two years spent a lot of time making visible the invisible hand of white monopoly capital (WMC). BLF has laboured to expose the state capture narrative that seeks to absolve WMC as the primary capturer of the state. BLF has consistently emphasized the liberation perspective which clarifies that the central contradiction in South Africa (SA) is really between black people and land thieves. The differences amongst blacks are secondary. Hence the slogan “peace amongst blacks – war to the enemy”. BLF enters its third year of life under heavy intensification of imperialist aggression, both here and abroad. In SA imperialism is fermenting every type of vendetta against the RET forces including sponsoring protests which seem protected by the police such as the burning down of Mahikeng. For the first time we have witnessed an attack on a mosque a few days ago. In this context we note the United States of America (USA) military invasion of SA – war aircraft of the USA are on our shores since early this month. This follows a 2 week long tour of SA by Lord Robin Renwick – chief handler of the puppets of regime change in the country. Abroad we see the intense imperialist war developing in countries like Venezuela, Nicaraguan, Ecuador, Brazil and even in the Caribbean. BLF has committed itself to exposing WMC corruption and schemes. We will, moving forward, defend and advance the original RET program. There are urgent tasks that must be done including intensifying the counter WMC narrative; organizing land occupations; opposing evictions from land and homes; defending the Ingonyama Trust; defending President Zuma; and defending the North West Premier, Supra Mahumapelo. BLF wishes to thank all those who have helped the movement. All your assistance – from financial, to ideas, to advice – are well appreciated. #Happy2BLF Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 14 May 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664