By BO Staff Writer The following statement was first published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: The day has not yet dawned for Africa to celebrate. Our continent is still bound up in shackles that weigh heavier which each passing day on the ankles of the children of Africa . To speak frankly, Africa has nothing to celebrate. Recognizing our plight without hiding our ugly truth, does not amount to the rejection of the great sacrifices of the first generation of freedom fighters led by the giant Nkwame Nkrumah. We honour those great leaders from Nkwame Nkrumah to Robert Sobukwe. However as we stand before their great achievements today, the balance sheet shows a great deficit of liberation. Africa remains in bondage. Great Zimbabwe had been a glimmer of hope towards decolonizing black Africa in the last three decades or so. But after the country had deposed its founding father – the great Pan Afrikanist – Robert Mugabe, its new London appointed leaders are busy crawling back like cowards into the British so called Commonwealth hellhole. At the southernmost tip of the great African continent, President Zuma put huge effort into abandoning the west for the east with the BRICS process. He, like Mugabe, was hit by a well oiled regime change program. Africa is back on her knees begging for acceptance from the very same enslavers and colonialists. South African colonial white capital is the launching pad of colonialism across the continent. Free trade zones means the domination and destruction of African trade networks by the South African white settler monopoly capital. A new crop of demagogic political class sounds militant rhetoric which only echoes the agenda of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). To this end the problems of Africa are reduced to the corruption of the compradorial African leadership thereby de facto shielding the continued plunder of the continent by the same multinational corporations that instituted slavery in the first instance. Africa’s dream of an independent continent lies shattered by a leadership that lacks vision and vigour. The troubles of this continent are largely because African political and business leaders are too eager for western approval. A new vision for a liberated Africa is now a matter of life and death. It can be done. Nkrumah did it.
Issued by the Black First Land First National Coordinating Committee (BLF NCC) 25 May 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664