By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) is appalled by the brazen presence of the army of the United States of America (USA) in South Aftica (SA). Reports show that a massive USA military plane is stationed at the Lensaria Airport for the last few days. This is tantamount to setting up an American military base close to the capital city of our country. The South African media has not cared to raise an alarm about this act of foreign military occupation of our country. The USA military invasion of SA occurs a few days after a two week long tour of the country by Robin Renwick. This raises questions about whether the USA military has been mandated to assist with the direct assault on the Radical Economic Transformation (RET) forces in SA. BLF notes the silence of organisations that claim to fight state capture such as the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). Julius Malema has in the past threatened to topple the government of Botswana because it has USA military bases stationed within it. He is however now quiet when the USA military is stationed right in the backyard of his Sandton home. The silence on this issue is another clear indication that there is a link between Robin Renwick’s visit to SA and the brazen display of USA military prowess. BLF calls on Ramaphosa to tell Donald Trump to remove his war machines from our country with immediate effect. We are aware that this USA military invasion is about intimidating the RET forces and ensuring that the looting of our mineral resources by imperialism and white monopoly capital (WMC) continues. Down with USA imperialism down! Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC)
8 May 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664 