By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) joins the numerous religious bodies and other progressive entities in strongly condemning the attack on the Old Main Road mosque in Verulam, KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) this past Thursday which left Imam Abbas Mohamedelo Essop dead and two others wounded. United States (US) imperialism in cahoots with the rest of the west is intensifying the senseless war for profit globally via regime change. In South Africa (SA) as well as in Brazil we have seen how they have removed democratically elected Presidents Jacob Zuma and Dilma Rousseff and replaced them with their puppets. It is clear that in SA currently imperialism is consolidating its agenda of completing and strengthening state capture by white monopoly capital (WMC) under the presidency of Cyril Ramaphosa. US imperialism has via the management of Ramaphosa facilitated counterrevolutionary protests to remove Supra Mahumapelo as the North West Premier because he is seen as a supporter of President Zuma who is the father Radical Economic Transformation (RET). Imperialism wants to stop RET because it threatens its interests globally and settler WMC in SA. The events in both the NW and KZN follows the US military invasion of SA – evidenced by the presence of a huge US military plane at the Lensaria Airport since early this month – which in turn occurred shortly after a two week long tour of SA by Lord Robin Renwick of London. The silence of Ramaphosa to BLF’s question about whether the US military has been mandated to assist with the direct assault on the RET forces in SA is most revealing of his role in this invasion. We have also condemned the silence of the leader of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), Julius Malema, on this issue who previously threatened to bring the government of Botswana down because of the presence of US military bases there. The US military has the freedom to instigate conditions of war and to this end create religious and ethnic differences amongst the people. The current situation indicates a direct link between Robin Renwick’s visit to SA, and the US military invasion of the country, on the one hand; and the reactionary protests leading to political instability the NW, as well as the attack on the Verulam mosque by US imperialism to fuel disunity in the Islamic community and by extension instability in KwaZulu-Natal, on the other hand. The US imperialist attack on the mosque in KZN (President Zuma’s stronghold) as well as its sponsored attack on the NW province (another stronghold of Zuma) via Ramaphosa are intended to intimidate the RET forces, ensure that its looting of the country’s mineral resources continues and create instability in the provinces towards the 2019 general elections. BLF calls on the leaders of the Islamic community to see the deceptive, bloody hand of imperialism, and not be swayed by it. We implore you to rather lead the Islamic people towards solidarity within the black block as we fight western imperialism which is the enemy of both RET as well as the Islamic people, the world over. BLF warns Ramaphosa and all agents of imperialism to stop siding with the enemies of black people! We will not sit idle while you allow them to kill our people and burn our places of worship! Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 12 May 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664 