By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Yet another court victory for the much maligned Gupta family. The Guptas have not lost any one of the multiple cases maliciously brought against them in the most brazen and barbaric manner through the abuse of state institutions. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has been reduced to a weapon of Johann Rupert to harass his business competitors. The white media, which is pro Johann Rupert, has played a big role in demonizing the Gupta family. The people of South Africa (SA) are victims of an anti Gupta propaganda campaign pushed by the white media and opposition parties in particular, Julius Malema’s Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). The so called Gupta leaks, upon which the white media has based its campaign of slander and hatred, cannot stand the slightest scrutiny as it is based on unfounded fabricated evidence. Evidently, the only “crime” committed by the Guptas was their challenge of the monopoly of whites in the economy. The demonisation of the Guptas as being the most corrupt people was based on nothing but an elaborate lie. The campaign against the Guptas was intended to hide, as it did, the real massive corruption of white monopoly capital (WMC) such as the Steinhoff scandal and the R26 billion stolen from the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) by the likes of ABSA. WMC shut down the bank accounts of the Guptas so as to stop them from trading in SA. At the same time, rogue companies like Lonmin have been allowed to operate bank accounts despite murdering scores of workers in Marikana. BLF has been clear that the one-sided prosecution of the Guptas is nothing but racist persecution. The raft of so called preservation orders and hasty criminal charges are calculated to subvert the judicial commission of inquiry (JCOI) into state capture. It is all about creating a poisoned environment that lends itself to criminalization of the Guptas without due process. This is barbarism, not the rule of law. The NPA has to immediately stop fighting the political and business battles of Johann Rupert. It is a known fact that Rupert is still very angry at the Gupta family for poaching his public relations (PR) firm Bell Pottinger. The prosecution of the Gupta linked people amounts to nothing but settling scores and killing competition. In SA the real corrupt section of capital is WMC. This criminal gang has now captured the NPA and is abusing it at will. The NPA must back-off. Also, those who have real evidence against the Guptas must provide such to the JCOI into state capture led by the Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 28 May 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664