By Thami Tom Zuma had to go so that value added tax (VAT) could be increased. Zuma had to go so that the R20 per hour minimum wage could be implemented. Zuma had to go for the deal of R1.4 trillion worth of independent power producers (IPPS) to be concluded. Zuma had to go to allow for permission to be sought in the form of a referendum to expropriate land without compensation. Zuma had to go in order to shoot down the motion to nationalize the South African Reserve Bank (SARB). Zuma had to go to reverse the black ownership target of 30% set in the new Mining Charter. Zuma had to go to fire Tom Moyane so as to prevent the investigation of the over R4 billion that went missing in Treasury during which period Trevor Manuel was the Finance Minister and Pravin Gordhan was the South African Revenue Services (SARS) Commissioner. Furthermore, Moyane had to leave to enable the coverup of the Paradise tax papers that implicates Lonmin Mine and other South African companies. Zuma had to go to enable the review of free education from second year of tertiary education. Zuma had to go for the terms of reference (ToR) of the state capture commission of inquiry to be amended so that the Rupert, Oppenheimer and other families would not be implicated and the focus will be put on the Gupta family only. Zuma had to go so that all radical economic transformation (RET) forces including Supra, Ace and Sihle, to mention but a few, could be removed. Zuma had to go so that the capitalist, neoliberal and imperialist agenda could be upheld. Zuma had to go to allow for the privatization of State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) as we have seen when the World Bank complained that the Eskom staff is bloated and overpaid. Zuma had to go so that ranks with BRICS could be broken. Zuma had to go to allow for the remarriage with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Zuma had to go to enable the Queen’s man, Lord Renwick, to visit our shores and preside over the pending marriage of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and the African National Congress (ANC). When Zuma went, Ramaphosa increased his salary to over R700 000 in less than one month of his tenure as President of South Africa. All these things happened in less than 3 months – let me pause here! 