By BO Staff Writer The following statement was published on the BLF website: BLF seeks urgent meeting with the Speaker of Parliament It has come to Black First Land First’s (BLF) attention that parliament is systematically mismanaging the land expropriation without compensation process. In February, parliament agreed to undertake “public hearings” to hear the views of the people on whether land should be expropriated without compensation following an agreement between the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and the African National Congress (ANC). The agreed deadline for the report on the hearings was August 2018, six months later. BLF has continuously warned that both the ANC and EFF are not serious about amending the constitution to ensure land is given back to black people. We denounced the public hearings as nothing but a delay tactic. The hearings were not necessary because they were merely a process outside the official law making process. There is already national consensus on land expropriation without compensation and together the EFF and ANC have the required two thirds majority to amend the constitution. The two parties are refusing to use their collective majority to end black suffering. BLF is appalled at the extensions which have been sought on the report on the public hearings. There are apparently further hearings on top of the public hearings. Parliament seems to be assisting the political parties to systematically avoid amending the constitution. This week, BLF will write to both the Speaker of Parliament and the chairperson of the joint Constitutional Review Committee to seek an urgent meeting to get clarity on the unexplained delays. Parliament must not help politicians to lie to our people. BLF has been saying there will be no amendment of the constitution before the elections in 2019. It’s all a lie to get the votes of the landless and poor. BLF will continue to monitor the process on land expropriation without compensation and alert our people about the progress made. If the constitution is not amended before the December parliament holiday, BLF will unleash a people-driven land expropriation without compensation process. ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT (BLF NCC) 15 October 2018 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @BLF_SouthAfrica
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664