By BO Staff Writer The following statement was posted on the Black First Land First (BLF) website. BLF berates appointment of Tito Mboweni as Finance Minister Black First Land First (BLF) berates the appointment of Tito Mboweni as Finance Minister. His appointment follows Pravin Gordhan and the Economic Freedom Fighters’ (EFF’s) unholy alliance plotting to demonise and remove Nhlanhla Nene. Nene was removed for not moving with swift vigour and urgency in privatising state owned enterprises (SOEs) for the benefit of white monopoly capital. Johann Rupert has now got his man, Tito Mboweni, who indeed is Stellenbosch’s Sha Sha appointment. This is not the first time the Ruperts have chosen Mboweni – he was previously chosen by Anton Rupert, Johann’s father, as Governor of the South African Reserve Bank (SARB). Mboweni, together with Trevor Manuel and Thabo Mbeki, knew that ABSA and Daimler Chrysler, amongst others, had unduly benefited from the illegal “life boats” saga, yet they took no action, costing the country R26 billion. He protected Rupert then, he will serve their privatisation of SOE’s now. Under the MMM leadership of Mbeki as President, Manuel as Finance Minister & Mboweni as the SARB governor, GEAR was implemented, a neoliberal framework, that protected white monopoly capital and brutalised black people. Mboweni has a proven track record of both being handpicked by white capital and secondly, radically implementating anti-black pro-capital policies. That’s why he is back. The Ramaphosa administration is a no-nonsense defender of white capital, and Johann, like his father Anton, has a hands-on policy. From positioning of Pravin Gordhan as the prime minister of South Africa, to his unholy alliance with Malema, who was summoned to apply pressure for Nene to resign. BLF advises South Africans to buckle up, the Sha Sha for Stellenbosh is about to intensify. BLF would equally like to inform the branches of the African National Congress (ANC) that there will be no nationalisation of the SARB. Finally we warn Malema – stop attacking black people in service of white monopoly capital. White capital is not your friend, just like they used you to abuse Nene, they are going to spew you out when they are done using you. ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT (BLF NCC) 10 October 2018 Black First Land First Email: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @BLF_SouthAfrica
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664