By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: “[I]t is in this field, in the field of ideas, in the field of sentiments, in the field of revolutionary virtues, in the field of intelligence, aside from his military virtues, that we feel the tremendous loss for the revolutionary movement, because Che, in his extraordinary personality, had virtues which rarely appear together. He was outstanding as an incomparable man of action. Che was not only an incomparable man of action, but a man of profound intellect, of visionary intelligence, a man of profound culture. I mean to say he was a man of ideas and a man of action.” extract from Fidel Castro’s eulogy for Che Guevara Ernesto Che Guevara was killed in Bolivia on 9 October 1967 by a CIA operative upon his guerrilla fighters being defeated during combat. His immortal contributions spans crucial questions including the economic significance of imperialism; struggle against the bureaucracy; the military tactics of guerilla warfare, and the role of the party and cadres in the building of socialism. His elaboration of the anti imperialist struggle was towards national sovereignty, universal citizenship and participatory democracy. It is now 51 years since Che Guevara’s death and its appropriate on this occasion to heed the many lessons of his revolutionary legacy. Che’s call for principled unity to defeat imperialism, colonialism, and capitalism towards building a radically new world and internationalist outlook, is most significant in this regard. He argued that “unity is necessary because disunity goes in favor of the U.S., which is our enemy, and everything that goes in favor of the enemy must be eliminated”. Che’s wisdom is timeless. He painstakingly taught us how to be practitioners of revolution. In this context he demonstrated many lessons including that freedom cannot be won without struggle; losing does not mean that victory was impossible; the oppressed liberate themselves; view everything from the perspective of the truth; high doses of passion and audacity are required for revolution; consulting the people is a prerequisite for governing; life must be spent overcoming defeats not celebrating victories; being realistic means demanding the impossible; words must be melded with deeds; and “a true revolutionary is guided by great feelings of love”. Black a First Land First (BLF) honors the legacy of Che Guevara by calling on all to emulate his revolutionary virtues – in words and in deeds! Long live Che Guevara! Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 10 October 2018 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za International Relations Secretary: Shantha Balakrishna
Cell number: +27 72 114 3670 Deputy President: Zanele Lwana
Cell: +27799867225 National Spokesperson: Lindsay Maasdorp
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Head of Media & Communications: Brian Tloubatla
Cell: +27 82 216 7664